## Background and Examples

An SIR epidemic on arbitrary directed and weighted network can be represented as a set of equations from level of individuals and building up to dependencies of these on pairs, of the pairs on triples and so on until we have full system size. Here, the system of equations has become well-defined and self-consistent; aim with this approach is to find closures, where we can approximate higher order moments or specify them exactly in terms of combinations of lower order moments.

It is well known and accepted that this is reasonable for tree-like networks and networks with loops, so long as we have specific initial conditions. 


### Testing closures: examples where closures do and do not work

First consider particular small networks with and without loops: open and closed _triple_, _lollipop_ and _toast_ networks. For such networks, the system of equations can be written down and closures can be tested. Authors provide the full system of equations for a closed triangle in Appendix 6 and use to show that triple closures don't hold for closed loops. They show that (SSI) and (ISI) type triples can't be closed exactly. This suggests that loops can't be closed and they claim it is likely that in exact closures loops must be kept intact.

Natural full system (NFS) - Appendix 7, whose equations naturally sort into equations that close (eqns. 29 to 50) and those that don't (eqns. 51-63). The non-closeable equations with some extra variables required by closures give a reduced system (RS) (eqns. 29-50, 77-80). Fig 3 shows exact closures at full system level that keep the closed triangle complete. Considering full set of equations for lollipop network, we can notice that node 1 always appears as a susceptible node when in a triple or a quadruple which is a candidate for cosure - this is a significant structural property which will be explained later. Also, note the two main types of closure: 
- Closures at level of triples not part of closed triangle, and
-  Closures at level of full system in a way in which quad is broken down into fully connected tiangle and the tail edge of the lollipop.

Networks with multiple loops: we consider the _toast_ network, full equations in Appendix 8. Authors explain that the equations cannot be closed and that the loops and whole network must be intact.

There are some tests that we can use to find validity of closures.
1. Test validity of closures directly from full system using the NFS
2. NFS and RS can be compared via evolution of prevalence in time

When the full system is available, possible to give an analytic proof that closures hold, involving rearranging closure relation as a difference: e.g. as $\alpha (t) = \langle \dot \rangle \langle \dot \rangle - \langle \dot \rangle \langle \dot \rangle$. Then, show that $\dot{\alpha} (t) = 0 \forall t \geq 0$ which, along wioth closure holding at $t=0$, gives desired result. Calculations will involve other closure-like (or $\alpha$-like) expresions but it will be possible to show that all such closures satisfy an equation of the form $\dot{\alpha}(t) - -C\alpha(t)$ where $C>0$ (see Sharkey et al., 13). For larger systems (e.g. the _bow tie_ in Fig 1e) the terms entering the closures can be evaluated from direct stochastic simulations and compared as such.

Main role of closures: reduce number of equations. We can achieve this for small or simple-structure networks, e.g. _line_ and _star_ networks. Reduction in number of equations in their Table 1, to highlight benefits of good closures. Using full system equations is good to test validity of intuition, but not practical for realistic-size networks. Numerical simulation gives an alternativel for larger networks we can test potential closures without using a large set of self-consistent equations. E.g. based on intuition gained so far, they test valiity of some plausible closures on bow tie network:
$$
\displaystyle
\langle I_1S_2S_3I_4 \rangle = \frac{\langle I_1S_2S_3 \rangle \langle S_3I_4 \rangle}{\langle S_3 \rangle} \text{~~and~~} \langle S_2S_3I_5 \rangle = \frac{\langle S_2S_3 \rangle \langle S_3I_5 \rangle}{\langle S_3\rangle}
$$
Testing validity of these closures involves numerically evaluating probability of parts of network being in particular states at given times, that is recording the presence (or lack thereof) of given state configurations across a fixed set of nodes. Averaging over enough simulations gives very a good approximation of the desired porbability of observing a given configuration across some part of the network.

The analysis to this point suggests loops cannot be closed by breaking them down to consider component parts: however, we can consider the alternative, where loops are kept closed.