## 3. Main result for networks with loops
### 3.1 Network structure driven closures

The following analysis shows an important relation between the structure of the network on which an epidemic is modelled and type of closures that are feasible. Structural properties discussed below will provide a good indication of feasibility of writing exact equations for a given network.

Two important structural properties are defined as follows:
1. _Let $G=\{V,E\}$ be a connected network. Let $v$ be a vertex of $G$, $v\in G(V)$. A node $v$ is called a **cut-vertex** if and only if $G\setminus\{v\}$ is disconnected._
2.  _Let $G=\{V,E\}$ be a connected graph. An edge $e\in G(E)$ is called a **bridge** if and only if its removal increases the number of connected components. It follows that an edge is a bridge if and only if it is not contained in any cycle and that the end nodes of a **bridge** are **cut-vertices**._
We can think of cut-vertices as single nodes whose removal leads to disconnected components or subnetworks. In Fig. 1, nodes $\{1\}, \{3\}, \{\{3\},\{4\}\} \text{~and~} \{1\}$ are cut-vertices in the lollipop, bowtie, bowtie with a bridge and star triangle networks respectively. Authors note that for all simple examples provided, closures worked around cut-vertices - see middle node in open triple and degree 3 node in lollipop.


### 3.2 Main Result

Paper then states the main result obtained, based on intuition from other closures discussed on simple networks and their link to the structural properties of the network via cut-vertices. Formalises link between closures and structural properties of the network.

**Theorem 1.** _Let_ $G=\{V,E\}$ _be a network with_ $N$ _vertices_ ($V=\{1, 2, \dots, N\}$) _and a set of edges given by_ $E$. _Consider a connected subset of vertices_ $F = \{v_1, v_2, \dots, v_k\}\subseteq V$ _and assume that_ $\exists v{i*} \in F,$ _a cut-vertex in_ $G$,_ such that_ $F\setminus\{v_{i\ast}\}$ _is partitioned into at least two disjointed components with vertices_ $F_1=\{v_1, v_2, \dots, v_{i-1}\}$ and $F_2=\{v_{i+1}, v_{i+2}, \dots, v_k\}$ _belonging to any such two distinct and disjointed components or subnetworks. Then the following equation holds:_
$$
\langle Z_{v_1}Z_{v_2}\dots Z_{v_{i-1}}S_{v_{i*}}Z_{v_{i+1}}Z_{v_{i+2}}\dots Z_{v_k}\rangle(t) = \frac{\langle Z_{v_1}Z_{v_2}\dots Z_{v_{i-1}}S_{v_{i*}}\rangle {\langle S_{v_{i*}}Z_{v_{i+1}}Z_{v_{i+2}}\dots Z_{v_k}\rangle(t)}}{\langle S_{v_{i*}} \rangle (t)},
$$
_where_ $Z_{v_{i}}=S$ _or_ $I~\forall v_i \neq v_{i*}$ _and_ $\langle \cdot \rangle$ _denotes the probability of a given subgraph being in a given state at a given time._

The proof of this theorem is provided on page 11. The authors claim that it is easy to see that the intuitive, simple cases provided earlier are all special cases of this main result.

### Special case for tree-like networks

In a tree-like network, all nodes (besides those with degree one/one neighbour) are cut-vertices. Noting the equations for triples in Eqns. 1 are all such that the middle node is suscpetible, it follows that
$$
\langle S_i S_j I_k \rangle = \frac{\langle S_iS_j \rangle \langle S_jI_k \rangle}{\langle S_j \rangle} \text{~~and~~} \langle I_i S_j I_k \rangle = \frac{\langle I_i S_j \rangle \langle S_j I_k \rangle}{\langle S_j \rangle}.
$$
