## 5. Discussion

The paper extended results for tree-like networks and Markovian SIR epidemics to networks with loops and gave an important link between the structural properties of the network and feasibility of writing an exact representation of the epidemic on a network. The paper builds up results methodically, from simplest networks (or network motifs). See citation 13: authors claim that the proof  of their main result is a more general alternative to that provided there, and usefulness of their main result over the result in 13 is illustrated by concrete, worked examples for tree-like networks containing non-overlapping (via edges) loops of max size 3. The authors in future hope to extend this to improve the upper estimate on number of equations in a reduced, exact system and make the upper estimate more explicit. 

As size of subnetworks increases, as does number of equations - the latter increases at a much faster rate. However, for cycle graphs the exact system contains relatively few equations which they then explain. 
- In a cycle graph with $N$ nodes:
	- $2N$ equations for the nodes (each can be $S$ or $I$) and $2N$ equations for the edges (each edge can be one of two states, $SI$ or $IS$) are needed. 
	- In the differential equations for the edges, two types of triples occur, namely $SSI$ (there are $2N$ of these) and $ISI$ triples (there are $N$ of these), so a total of $3N$ equations for the triples.
	- In the same way, there are $3N$ $k$-motifs (for $k=4, 5, \dots , N-1$) namely those of type $S\dots SI \text{~and those of type~} IS\dots SI$.
	- There are $2N$ $N$-motifs, $N$ of them are of type $S\dots SI$ and $N$ of type $IS\dots SI$.
	- Hence, the number of equations in the full system of a cycle graph with $N$ nodes is $2N+2N+3N(N-3)+2N = 3N(N-1)$.
- Note that this can be lumped to $2N-1$ equations if we introduce a single variable for each motif type - the first lumped variable is $\langle S \rangle = \sum^N_{i=1}\langle S_i \rangle$, the expected number of $S$ nodes (paper says $\langle S \rangle$ nodes) and the second lumped variable is $\langle I \rangle = \sum^N_{i=1}\langle S_I \rangle$, the expected number of $I$ nodes.
- In a similar way then, there will be a lumped variable for $k$-motifs of type $S\dots SI$ and another lumped variable for $k$-motifs of type $SI\dots IS$
- In total, the number of lumped variables will sum to $2N-1$ meaning the exact value of the prevalence can be given by solving a system of $2N-1$ ODEs - it is therefore feasible to extend our results to tree-like networks with no overlapping loops of size greater than three.

Authors note that, while progress has been made in modelling epidemic dynamics on networks with loops, challenges remaining typically involve generating clustered networks and tuning the amount of clustering and implicitly the number and type of different loops - especially around providing description of the time-evolution of the epidemic. Progress in determining the final epidemic size (without having to consider time-evolution) has been reasonable but models describing time-evolution are more difficult. The paper gives first steps in providing a well-grounded and rigorous modelling alternative. Of  course, models presented are unlikely to pertain to analytical analysis, but they could provide a platform to investigate the effect of intervention or control on nodes, edges or sub-parts of the network. The exact system in this case could give precise information about the impact of isolating nodes, links or decreasing their potential of transmitting or increasing the recovery rate of some targeted or specific nodes.

*This could be helpful in Firefighter: is it beneficial to target cut-vertices, so that we can split the graph up better and contain outbreaks at a population level or should we continue to fight the fire locally when we are looking at significant size graphs?*

Appendices give the equations for the dynamics of various systems discussed, from triangle network to star-triangle.