## Three and higher dimensional square grids

Already found that an outbreak beginning at a single point in a regula graph of degree $r$ can be contained with $r-1$ firefighters per time step - for the $d$-dimensional square grid $\mathbb{L}^d$, $2d-1$ firefighters suffice to contain an outbreak at a single point. It is conjectured that this bound is tight and the authors will go onto provide a proof.

Others have also found that a minimum of two firefighters are required per time step for containment in $\mathbb{L}^3$ and at least three are needed to contain the outbreak. The latter requires what Fogarty describes as a 'Hall-type condition' which gives a lower bound for the rate at which the fire can spread. This idea centres on the 'front' of the fire, the burnt vertices furthest from the root - if this front grows quickly, by at least $f$, then regardless of its precise shape it cannot be contained by deploying $f$ firefighters per time step. This is given and proved as theorem 8.

The authors provide definition 1 in order to give theorem 2 and then the proof thereof.

For definition 3 and lemma 4, the authors partition lattices of dimension three and above into isomorphic subgraphs - lemma 4 proves long-term growth of the font and the lemma 5 gives complementary requirements.

Interesting notion of a 'firewall' - defend all vertices at a distance $k$ from $(n,n,n)$ where an outbreak starts at $(0,0,0)$. To be effective, it is important that we can cover $(k+1)(k+2)/2$ such vertices in $3n-k$ timesteps required for the fire to reach such a hyperplane. This gives $k=O(\sqrt{n})$. The number of vertices saved is the number of vertices at a distance $k$ or less from $(n,n,n)$, which is $(k+1)(k+2)(k+3)/6$ = this is $O(k^3)=O(n^{3/2})$. Hence, optimal number of vertices sved given an initial outbreak at the origin in the grid graph $P_n\times P_n\times P_n$

