## Methods


### Mapping SIR dynamics to weighted shortest paths

Begin with Poissonian SIR model - memoryless, s.t. the next state only depends on the present state of the system. This process is defined by two parameters, $(\beta, \gamma)$ that describe transitions where susceptible nodes become infected with rate $\beta$ from infected neighbours and transitions where infected nodes recover with rate $\gamma$. This process has exponential inter-event time distributions: 
$$\psi(t)=\beta e^{-\beta t}$$ $$\phi(t)=\gamma e^{-\gamma t},$$ spread and recovery respectively.  However, many realistic processes do in fact have memory, and their inter-event time distributions are not exponential. Thus, we allow for arbitary inter-event density distributions $(\psi(t), \phi(t))$ for generalised SIR processes.

For a given network $G$ and a class of generalised SIR spreading models, they show how to create a weighted networks $\{\mathcal{G}_k\}$ which encode realisations of the stochastic spreading dynamics. Each weighted network $\mathcal{G}_k$ encodes a single possible outcome of the spreading process from every potential source node in a network. In particular, a _time-respecting weighted network_ instance $\mathcal{G}_k$ is created by taking input network $G$ and assigning weights to the edges of the network instance with the Inverse Smirnov Transform as 
$$\displaystyle\rho_{i, j}=
\begin{cases}
\begin{align}
& \Psi^{-1}(x): &\Psi^{-1}(x)&\leq\Phi^{-1}(y) \\
& \infty: &\Psi^{-1}(x)&>\Phi^{-1}(y),
\end{align}
\end{cases}$$
where $x$ and $y$ are uniform random numbers in the interval $[0,1]$ and $\Psi^{-1}(x)$ and $\Phi^{-1}(y)$ are iunverse functions of the cumulative inter-event distributions $\displaystyle\Psi(t) = \int^{t}_{0}dt^{\prime}\psi(t^{\prime})$ and $\displaystyle\Phi(t) = \int^{t}_{0}dt^{\prime}\phi(t^{\prime}).$ The quantities $\Psi^{-1}(x)$ and $\Phi^{-1}(y)$ represent the samples of the transmission and recovery time obtained with the IST (above) of inter-event distributions.

In the special case of Poissonian SIR process, we have
$$\displaystyle\rho_{i, j}=
\begin{cases}
\begin{align}
& -\ln(x)/\beta: &-\ln(x)/\beta&\leq-\ln(y)/\beta \\
& \infty: &-\ln(x)/\beta&>-\ln(y)/\beta,
\end{align}
\end{cases}$$
If nodes recover faster than it takes for a transmission to occur, we set the weight to infinity to indicate no transmission through the edge.

Denote the distance as shortest paths on weighted networks $$\displaystyle d_{\mathcal{G}_k}(v_i, v_j) = \min_{\chi_{i, j}}\sum_{(k, l)\in\chi_{i, j}}\rho_{k, l},$$ where $\chi_{i, j}$ is the set of all possible paths from node $v_i$ to $v_j$ on network $\mathcal{G}_k$ and $\rho_{k, l}$ denotes the weights in the Inverse Smirnov Transformation above. Importantly, this distance is equivalent to the propagation time from node $i$ to $j$, i.e. $t(v_i\rightarrow v_j)=d_{\mathcal{G}_k}(v_i, v_j)$ _(time-respecting path equivalence)._

The run-time complexity of finding the shortest paths from specific source nodes to others is $O(E+N\ln(N)$ where $N$ denotes the number of nodes, $E$ the number of edges. The exact mapping is done by generating a random variable $y$ for each node and $x$ for each edge. This takes all dynamical correlations into account and generates the ensemble of directed weighted networks. A simplified mean mapping can be found by generating $x$ and $y$ per edge independently. Such a mean-field mapping holds when $\beta \gg\gamma$ (the SI case) and generates the ensemble of undirected weighted networks. There is a link to code that implements this mapping in the Additional Information section.


### Sampling Methods for Simulation

The instances of the ensemble of weighted networks can be sampled either independently or by traversing elements of the ensemble with a Markov Chain.

The Markov Chain (rejection-free Gibbs sampler) consists of transitions $W_{i, j}=w(\mathcal{G}_i\rightarrow\mathcal{G}_j)$ over the set of weighted networks $\{\mathcal{G}_k\}$ where each weighted network corresponds to a realisation of the spreading process from each potential source node. Using this, we can create transitions between weighted networks by changing weights in the first neighbourhood of a randomly seleted node for precise mapping or by assigning a new weight to the randomly selected edge for a mean-field mapping, as with the transformations above. The existence of a stationary distribution of this Markov Chain is guaranteed by _detailed balance property_ and _uniqueness by ergodicity_ (explained in supp. info. 3) - i.e. the Gibbs sampling (and independent sampling) creates probability distribution $P(\mathcal{G})$ of the weighted network ensemble s.t. it is a statistically exact representation of the stochastic process. From the ensemble of weighted networks, owing to ergodicity the expectation $\langle f(\mathcal{G})\rangle$ can be estimated as the average over $n$ samples of weighted networks: $$\displaystyle\langle f(\mathcal{G})\rangle=\sum_{\mathcal{G}_k}P(\mathcal{G}_k)f(\mathcal{G}_k\approx \frac{1}{n}\sum^n_{k=1}f(\mathcal{G}_k).$$

We can estimate different properties (e.g. total outbreak size, temporal evolution, expected propagation time or source likelihood - Supp. info 4) by changing functions $f(\mathcal{G})$. The above equation can be applied to the independent sampling. The convergence rates of independent estimation are bounded (using the [[07012021-2110 Berry-Esseen Theorem|Berry-Esseen theorem]]) by $O(n^{1/2})$. If we assume we want all to all shortest paths, the shortest paths can be dynamically recalculated after each weight change in the Markov Chain transition with computational complexity $O(N^2\ln^3N),$ where $N$ denotes the number of nodes in a network (supp. info. 8). Hence, we confirm that the shortest paths in the ensemble of weighted networks are taking into account stochastic spreading along all possible paths in original (unweighted) network.


### Relation to Bond Percolation

From the perspective of the source node $v_i$, the shortest path $d_\mathcal{G}(v_i, v_j)$ represents the time to first infection of node $v_j$. This means that all nodes unreachable within time (temporal distance) $t$ remain susceptible. If a node is reachable within $t$, then it is infected. By allowing $t$ to go to infinity, we gain asymptotic realisation _equivalence to bond percolation._ In particular, the size of the set of nodes $v_j$ that are reachable in any finite time from the source node is given by $$\displaystyle|S_p(v_i)|=\lim_{t\rightarrow\infty}|\{d(v_i, v_k)<t\}|.$$ (Proof: supp. info. 2 - holds for simplified mean-field mapping, where edge weights are independent). Thus, $|S_p(v_i)|$ gives the size of the connected bond percolation component, where the transmissibility parameter from $v_i$ is given by $$p=\int^\infty_0d\tau\phi_i(\tau)\int^\tau_0d\tau^\prime\psi_i(\tau^\prime).$$ Here, the first integral accounts for all possible recovery times $\tau$ and the second integral accounts for the conditional probabilty of transmission up to the fixed recovery time.

Further, to take dynamical correlations into account that were hereto missing, we can generalise transmissibility for first neighbourhood, i.e. the probability $p_{n,k}$ that $k$ of $n$ directed links will be active: $$\displaystyle p_{n,k}=\int^\infty_0\phi(\tau)d\tau\begin{pmatrix} n \\ k\end{pmatrix}(1-\Psi(\tau))^{(n-k)}\Psi(\tau)^k,$$ where $\Psi(\tau)=\int^\tau_0\psi(t)dt.$ For Poissonian processes, this becomes: $$\displaystyle p_{n,k}=\begin{pmatrix} n \\ k\end{pmatrix}\frac{\gamma\Gamma(k+1)\Gamma\left(\frac{\gamma+\beta(n-k)}{\beta}\right)}{\beta\Gamma\left(k+1+\frac{\gamma+\beta(n-k)}{\beta}\right)}.$$ This generalised transmissibility establishes the connection to semi-directed bond percolation (supp. info 5, 6). For exact mapping of SIR process to percolation, we lose accuracy with a single parameter $p$ when $\beta\approx\gamma$ and gneralised transmissibility $p_{n, k}$ for the first neighbourhood is required to capture all dynamical correlations.


### Relation to Disordered Networks

It is important to consider how average propagation time between two individuals scales with the system size for both applied and theoretical applications of this work. If the distance scales logarithmically with the system size, an epidemic can spread nearly instantaneously in arbitrarily large networks. However, if it scales like $N^\sigma,$ then in sufficiently large systems the disease will not spread through the network in realistic timescales. We can address this question for the SI-model (i.e. $\gamma=0$) elegantly by **creating an analogy using the shortest path problem in disordered networks.** These networks are generated by assigning weights $\rho$ independently to edges drawn from some distribution $f(\rho)$. The authors previously (another paper) showed the shortest path length from $v_i$ to $v_j$ in these weighted networks scales differently with system size depending on $f(\rho)$ and distinguishing between strong and weak disorder.

We define the shortest path length as $$d(v_i,v_j)=\min_{\chi_{ij}}\sum_{(k,l)\in\chi_{ij}}\rho_{k,l},$$ where $\chi_{ij}$ is the set of all posible paths. Example of Erdős-Renyi networks: case of strong disorder the shortest path length scales as $\langle d \rangle \propto N^{1/3}$ and for weak disorder as $\langle d \rangle \propto \ln N.$ Temporal distance (as defined earlier) is equivalent to the shortest paths on weighted graphs - hence, we can use the analogy to study scaling of the average propagation time with the system size. We know that, if $f(\rho)$ is the exponential distribution, average propagation time scales with logarithm of the system size of and diseases spread quickly in systems of any size. However, if the inter-event distribution is (for instance) given by a lognormal distribution (non-Markovian) we have that strong disorder can occur s.t. average distance (and hence average propagation time) scales like $\langle d \propto N^{1/3}\rangle.$ In this case, finite time properties of the spreading process are much different to non-Markovian case since average propagation time becomes very large as the size of the system increases s.t. the disease won't spread globally in realistic timescales.

Although it was recently shown that infinite time steady states of non-Markovian processes can be mapped to Markovian ones, their finite time dynamics can be drastically different.

Code available [[https://github.com/ninoaf/SpreadingMapping|here.]]