# Exact deterministic representation of Markovian SIR epidemics on networks with and without loops


```latex
@misc{kiss18,
  author        = "Istvan Z Kiss and Charles G Morris and Fanni Sélley and Peter L Simon and Robert R Wilkinson",
  title         = "Exact deterministic representation of Markovian SIR epidemics on networks with and without loops",
  year          = "2018",
}
```

## Authors:
Istvan Z Kiss, Charles G Morris, Fanni Sélley, Peter L Simon and Robert R Wilkinson

## Date:
October 1, 2018

## Abstract:
In a previous paper Sharkey et al. [13] proved the exactness of [[DEF. Closure|closures]] at the level of triples for Markovian SIR (susceptible-infected-removed) dynamics on tree-like networks. This resulted in a deterministic representation of the epidemic dynamics on the network that can be numerically evaluated. In this paper, we extend this modelling framework to certain classes of networks exhibiting [[DEF. Graph loops|loops]]. We show that closures where the loops are kept intact are exact, and lead to a simplified and numerically solvable system of ODEs (ordinary-differential-equations). The findings of the paper lead us to a generalisation of closures that are based on partitioning the network around nodes that are cut-vertices (i.e. the removal of such a node leads to the network breaking down into at least two disjointed components or subnetworks). Exploiting this structural property of the network yields some natural closures, where the evolution of a particular state can typically be exactly given in terms of the corresponding or projected sates on the subnetworks and the cut-vertex. A byproduct of this analysis is an alternative probabilistic proof of the exactness of the closures for tree-like networks presented in Sharkey et al. In this paper we also elaborate on how the main result can be applied to more realistic networks, for which we write down the ODEs explicitly and compare output from these to results from simulation. Furthermore, we give a general, recipe-like method of how to apply the reduction by closures technique for arbitrary networks, and give an upper boudn on the maximum number of equations needed for an exact representation.

Keywords: master equation, network, closure, loop, cut-vertex.


KYLE BURNS PGR