# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 06__
12-11-2020

[[05_03-11-20 | < Previous]] | [[07_19-11-20 | Next >]]

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan has permission to work at the office (Room 502, SAWB) and, as long as necessary COVID precautions are taken and Ethan feels safe enough to do so, Jess encouraged the change of scenery.

Jess has been contacted to say the mini-ITX system for Ethan is ready - it will be left in Ethan's office for him to set up.

## 2. Research

Ethan brought up the COVID vaccine that had been discussed in the news recently; Jess confirmed this could relate to the influence-based application they aim to consider of Firefighter.

The main discussion this week arose because Ethan has been struggling with NaiveOptimalFirefigher - the implementation is proving more complex than the coding Ethan is used to, so Jess made some helpful suggestions for simplifying the implementation. For instance, the use of a method that checks for the first vertex that can be defended in a given strategy. Jess noted that the main difficulty seems to be stemming from the `defence()` method, and the suggestions provide should help to simplify this.

Another discussion led to the idea of developing an `Agent` class. This may contain methods involving storing agency-related attributes as vectors for multiplication application. While doing this, Jess suggested Ethan should consider whether we can think of the classical Firefighter problem as a corner case, or a specific version, of the agency-based case they aim to consider. If it is true, then we have immediate proof that the agency based problem is also NP-hard.

Jess noted that Ethan's background in complexity theory is a little light, so suggested he view the online copy of CLRS (available through UofG library website), which will help in surveying Firefighter literature. Jess explained reduction arguments in this context, which Ethan found very helpful.

## 3. Plan
Ethan:
* Continue work on NaiveOptimalFirefighter.java
  * Email Jess with any roadblocks that seem a quick fix
* Do some reading on complexity theory
* Continue reading/thinking about agency application of Firefighter

Jess:
* Reply to email about PhD hardware for Ethan (completed)


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: continue with plan as above, in particular email Jess if there are any small issues she can look over before next meeting.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 19-11-20_**



_EK 15:30 14-11/2020_

