# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 33__
01-07-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan and Jess discussed the outcome and recommendations from the annual progress review (last week). Ethan also updated Jess on the other work he has been doing, including with a fellow PhD student in virology. Ethan is also teaching on the Advanced Programming course, which is proving to be quite a high workload.

Next meeting will be Wednesday 7th July at 12noon (rather than usual Thursday noon).


## 2. Research

Ethan has been getting to grips with a C/C++ project from a paper on modelling FMD outbreaks for the collaborative work he has been doing, which has taken significant time since Ethan has not used C/C++ significantly before.

Ethan has also returned to the formal side of equations generation and is aiming to write down further generation equations for networks in increasing generality and hopefully use this to debug code for equations generation.

From the discussion of the APR suggestions, both agreed that Ethan should take care to run experiments on different graph classes before coming to conclusions about the performance of defence strategies. He should also begin to identify research questions and ideally pin down a thesis statement, as discussed in the review, and action any other points raised in the meeting.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] Continue work on real-world disease modelling data
- [ ] Continue attempts to derive a general generation equation for Markovian compartmental epidemic models on graphs
- [ ] Consider and, where appropriate, action the suggestions from the annual progress review


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 07-07-2021_**



_EK 11:02 05-07-21_
