# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 27__
06-05-2021

[< Previous](../04-21/26_29-04-21.md) | [Next >](../05-21/28_13-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin


## 2. Research

Jess has reviewed some of Ethan's code, notably the `Model` class (which Ethan had pointed out as a significant class that could do with some improvement). Jess suggested Ethan separate the code here into sections, especially by I/O and and model running.

Instead of calculating the amount to defence to spend on a given agent as the total (remaining) defence divided by the number of agents to defend, Ethan could traverse the `toDefend` ordered list increasing protection of each agent as far as possible until budget is spent. This would hopefully run faster than the current method.

Ethan should consider some (unit) testing infrastructure of the Model class.

Ethan explained that he has had difficulty implementing a 'no defence' defence strategy, which both believe is down to a bug somewhere in the code that Ethan should dedicate some time to this week.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] Send Jess degree distribution plots (to ensure graphs generated are correct).
- [ ] Complete work on Equations code (splice method, refactoring, testing)
- [ ] Alice mentioned there may be a version of NetworkX in Java - look into this.
- [ ] Debugging of Agency project (something goes very wrong when a 'no defence' defence is implemented...)


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 13-05-21_**



_EK 13:18 {{06-05-21}}_
