# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 28__
13-05-2021

[< Previous](../05-21/27_06-05-21.md) | [Next >](../05-21/29_20-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan had his talk accepted for the Computational Biology conference in two weeks. Jess gave helpful advice and the two discussed logistics. Ethan also explained he has a lot of marking currently (as we are coming to the end of exam season), so he may not have a usual research output level.


## 2. Research

Ethan has been working on accumulating information and plans for sections of the annual progress report. Jess mentioned that, in this area of research, in future planning section Ethan would be better served by discussing _milestones_ rather than _measures of success._

Jess had some suggestions for similar work for compartmental models on graphs, to write a more complete literature review including work by Eric Voltz (more formal side). Ethan should refer back to the original Kiss paper and see whether he is covering another of the 3 approaches to compartmental modelling on graphs, which would be something to make a point of in the report.

Jess also gave some pointers about the results Ethan has been trying to prove. Jess first explained the _unique paths property,_ which would cut down some of Ethan's main proof by quite a bit. Then, Jess suggested this work would fit into a larger proof of the statement 'a connected graph with $n$ edges and no cut vertices is a cycle' by proving:
1. A connected graph on $n$ vertices with $n$ edges must contain a cycle.
2. Nothing else in a graph on $n$ vertices with $n$ edges besides the single cycle (consider a $k$-cycle, say another vertex is in the graph not in the cycle but is a closesy vertex to something in the cycle - this should mean it is adjacent).

This statement and method of proof certainly sounds reasonable, but Ethan will need to do some work to put it together.


## 3. Plan

Plan:
- [x] Exam marking
- [x] Continue annual progress report planning
- [x] Carry on with above result proving for equations bounding
- [ ] Write conference talk and slides, sending to Jess if finished before she is on leave
- [ ] If there is time, go back to tasks from previous weeks unfinished due to unexpected marking.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 20-05-21_**



_EK 19:52 16-05-21_
