# PHD MEETING
## Second Supervisor Meeting

__Meeting 04__
04-05-2021

[< Previous](../03-21/2_04_30-03-21.md) | [Next >]()

_Alice Miller,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

This meeting, originally intended for April, was held in May as Alice was on annual leave at the end of April.

Alice and Ethan again discussed the ASD course Alice is teaching in the summer term (for the Masters (IT) course) - Ethan found out the day after this meeting that he is indeed teaching on this course. 


## 2. Research

Ethan, as usual, updated Alice with the progress he has made since their last meeting in both the Agency and Equation projects. Alice mentioned that the Equations work Ethan is doing would make an interesting FATA talk, probably in the Autumn. Further, Alice suggested looking into some of the funding sources she had mentioned when Ethan had originally applied for his PhD, as several of them only accept applications from students mid-way through their research. Alice also mentioned the Journal of Symmetry, which has an attached conference where some of Ethan's graph theory work would be likely accepted.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
* Continue with mini-project, as discussed with both Alice and Jess.
* Look into Journal of Symmetry
* Look into NetworkX - possibly a Java equivalent
* Consider sources of funding previously discussed.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.



**_Next meeting date: TBD**



_EK 13:30 06-05-2021_
