# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 23__
08-04-2021

[< Previous](../04-21/22_01-04-21.md) | [Next >](../04-21/24_15-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

New JK time as of next week (1pm Thursdays, straight after this recuring meeting).


## 2. Research

Ethan first took Jess through the plots he has come up with in the past week, notably focusing in on the range of $p$ values from 0.01 to 0.20 for Erdős–Rényi graphs and plotting percentage of graph burned (rather than just winners). Jess made some very helpful comments:
- Ethan could choose a smaller set of graph densities to view if the plot is not clear, e.g. Mixed case
- These plots could be better suited to a _violin plot._ This would give a better idea of distribution than just using the alpha value (as currently).
- Ethan should try and plot the size of the largest components. This would make it easier to see if we are viewing a percolation situation and perhaps what the percolation threshold may be.
- It's interesting to note when the protection strategies do/don't diverge, e.g. in the Mixed case they don't diverge and correlate seemingly linearly with burning.
- Now Ethan has implemented a preferential atatchment model, Jess is interested to see it confirmed that degree does fairly well - this may give a clear message to state.
- Ethan could consider using network data sets to use some more useful/meaningful starting points. Jess provided some starting points:
	- [Network Data Repository](http://networkrepository.com/ "http://networkrepository.com/"): "The first interactive network dataset repository with interactive graph visualization and analytics"
	- [SocioPatterns.org](http://www.sociopatterns.org/datasets/ "http://www.sociopatterns.org/datasets/"): "A research project that aims to uncover fundamental patterns in social dynamics and coordinated human activity through a data-driven approach."

Jess noted that the purpose of the current project is to set up a framework for the rest of Ethan's PhD but also to identify questions that can be asked. It seems that they have honed in on questions surrounding defence strategies on different graph classes in this agency-based version of _Firefighter._

In the longer term, Jess suggested Ethan consider "caution" allocation. Currently, protection is allocated deterministically (given by proximity to closest infection), randomly (uniformly random value) or mixed (a blend of both approaches). Jess noted Ethan could focus on the random number, which they termed "caution rating," and come up with some other allocation strategies for this. Perhaps Ethan could consider using this _caution_ to introduce clustering behaviour, e.g. cautious people might cluster together in the graph, or cautiousness could be a funciton of degree (fewer connections meaning more cautiosness, for instance).

Next week, Jess suggested Ethan walk Jess through the process of producing closures from the Markovian SIR paper he has been reading. This is in the hope that it aids Ethan's progress towards implementing this in the `Equations` code.


## 3. Plan

- [x] Produce a document with some of the graphs already produced
	- [x] Explain the plots - what trends do we see, what explains them, etc.
	- [x] Use further plots to help in writing this, e.g. fewer increments to make a trend more obvious
- [x] Use violin plots to get a better idea of distributions in results
- [ ] Try to indicate somewhere the size of the largest graph component - this would mean we can better attribute the success/failure of a defence strategy to the features of the strategy or to the structure of the graph.
- [ ] Generate and plot/explain some results from models using the preferential attachment graph that can now be generated (and any other interesting graph classes).
	- [ ] Are there any clear statements we can make based on the results obtained? Would this require lots more computing?
- [ ] Use the network datasets provided by Jess (linked above) to produce some more useful, realistic and practical models of contagion.
- [x] Prepare some notes to show Jess how closures work in original paper for next time.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan, as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 15-04-2021 _**



_EK 14:35 08-04-2021_
