# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 03__
20-10-2020

[< Previous](10-20/02_13-10-20.md) | [Next >](10-20/04_27-10-20.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan discussed the changes to structure and recent uploads in the github repo. This involved showing Jess the [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) markdown note-taking system he uses when reading and exploring ideas in research, which is especially useful as it can format LaTeX commands and code well. Ethan also pointed Jess towards the updates to the Percolation lit review, where some graphs have been added. They discussed the future, more preferable case of using Python (or similar) to create these graphs.

At the end of the meeting, Ethan asked about the new machine he and Jess had discussed through the week that would run Linux. Jess has informed the relevant people in the department and will continue to look out for information about how and when to collect the machine, and advised Ethan to consider whether he would like to take all parts home (or e.g. just the monitor) before that point, as that can be arranged prior.

## 2. Research

Focusing on 3.3 of Percolation (iregular population density), Jess introduced the idea of starting with a regular graph and (rather than using uniform percolation and use for some firefighting) designating different portions of the graph different probabilities e.g. one half of the graph percolated with p=1/2, other parts 3/4 or others 1/4 and so on.

Regarding the continuum graph from last time, Ethan explained he would rather do some more research on different graph classes and what Firefighting looks like on each, so this is left until later as a long-term goal. 

Ethan discussed a natural candidate for the mini project: percolation, but a focused question is required. Look at 3.1 in Percolation "better than random": Jess suggested Ethan try and come up with some code for best possible firefighter strategy (integer program) to use as a comparison tool for best case scenario upper bound. We should aim for this as a best-case but can't get better (or equal, presumably in some cases). Then, we can use percolation as a lower bound - if a particular method isn't better than a random strategy, we ought to look elsewhere. On what graphs is a random strategy good and where is it bad? Where it is bad, we are most likely to make biggest improvements by concentrating on different methods for best strategy. Jess suggested that the benefit of this approach is that it's low risk: Ethan will be able to build on this later and at least end up with something for the mini project (even if it is not the full criteria for a worthwhile strategy to pursue).

For the code, Ethan needs to decide on a few things: implementation language and how to approach in a general sense. What Ethan is to implement is an exact integer program. Jess explained that, when written, the code will work (even if it's slow) and speed can be improved from that point. Integer program asks to maximise a sum subject to time that you defend, levels and so on. This will take some time to work out how to program 'u is an ancestor of v' for instance! Ethan will pick a language and start writing _accessory code_ - how would it represent Firefighter, a graph and a list of things on fire/defended/open? Given a graph with some things that are defended and burning, code needs to generate the next set of burning things (function required for this). How does the code detect that the game is over?

Language to consider: Jess mentioned _julia_. Partway between R and Python but much faster. Disadvantage is that this is new, Python/Java have packages for e.g. graphs and so on, and Ethan mentioned that of the two he is more comfortable in Java, but Jess noted that once the code is written it is not as difficult to translate to another language if desired.

Have a look at graphs libraries in Java. To get started in Java, how would you design classes and what are the objects, i.e. what package, how are you going to plot things? This is the infrastructure code, what we're going to need regardless.

Ethan discussed the side project recently mentioned with William K; this is continuing, but they will wait until much of the data is in before formatting and considering presentation. Ethan explained tentative approval has been gained, although the University will very likely ask to see any data and conclusions before allowing the work to be publicised in some form.

## 3. Plan

Plan for Ethan:
* Begin work on integer program
  * Decide on implementation language
  * Research applicable packages (graph libraries) in given language
  * Start writing accessory code (classes, how will it represent results and what are the objects?)
* Continue work on Percolation lit review if/when reading could lead to some interesting inclusions
* Carry on with teaching (Java/AF2) and side project with William K, if and when work is to be done on that

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan:
* Continue on plan as above

Jess: No follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 14:00 27-10-20_**



_EK 15:15 20-10-2020_
