# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 04__
27-10-2020

[< Previous](03_20-10-20.md) | [Next >](05_03-11-20.md.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

None to discuss.

## 2. Research

Much of the meeting concerned Jess helping Ethan with debugging his [GreedyFirefighter.java](https://github.com/ethankelly/research/tree/main/firefighter) code. Ethan discussed the problematic, yet deterministic, behaviour his code was exhibiting and Jess suggested a number of solutions. These involved taking an approach informed more by linear algebra; define a 2D array in Java, and use it to store the state of each vertex at a given time. These states should be: _defended, burned and open._ Jess suggested defining this as in the following example:
|    _Vertex_   | t=0             | t=1             | t=2             |
| ------------- |  -------------  |  -------------  |  -------------  |
|       0       |        B        |        B        |        B        |
|       1       |        S        |        S        |        S        |
|       2       |        S        |        D        |        D        |
|       3       |        S        |        S        |        B        |
|      ...      |       ...       |       ...       |       ...       |
|       n       |        S        |        S        |        0        |
|               |_Vertex 0 burns_ |_Defend vertex 2_|_Vertex 3 burns_ |

We require a function that either takes a vertex v and returns its state and the time it changed, or a function that takes a vertex v and a time t and returns the state of v at time t. The latter option would involve locating the relevant row v and traversing the columns to find the entry at time t. Because Java requires integer indices, the states may need to be represented as {0, 1, 2} corresponding to {open, defended, burned}.


Jess also suggested using the adjacency matrix currently instantiated in [Graph.java](https://github.com/ethankelly/research/tree/main/firefighter) and defining a vector __S__ that represents the state (with, perhaps 1 -> burned and 0 -> open). Then, we simply multiply the 2D array (adjacency matrix) by the state __S__ to obtain the next state of play. While this is not perhaps the way to compute future states long-term (as it it likely very inefficient), this is useful in understanding the process and ensuring we have functional code. This would mean we have an easily applicable format for software such as Matlab and Mathematica, for visualisations.


## 3. Plan

Plan for Ethan:
* Re-think data types and representations in code
  * Focus on data representation and how we can use this to simplify constructors and methods
* Continue debug and update Graph class where necessary
* Carry on with teaching, FATA meetings and reading group


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan:
* Continue on plan as above

Jess: No follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 14:00 03-11-20_**



_EK 17:00 27-10-2020_
