# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 01__
06-10-2020

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess has provided Ethan's email address to be added to FATA mailing group. Ethan is going to look at the social calendar for the group (https://samoa.dcs.gla.ac.uk/events/rest/Feed/ics/6) and attend the Tuesday 13:00 meeting and Thursday virtual coffee meet.

Ethan agreed to write up informal 'minutes' for each meeting with a plan for himself and any action points for both he and Jess. Ethan will set up a Github/Gitlab account to save these notes. Jess emphasised the importance of version control, and agreed to be contacted through Teams or email as preferred/appropriate.

Both agreed to meet weekly: Tuesdays at 2pm, via Zoom or similar as appropriate/convenient.


## 2. Research

Ethan discussed reading up on Percolation Theory, specifically with material by G. Grimmett. Jess suggested that this was a good starting point and that Newman may also be useful as a more practical (rather than theoretical) approach. Jess suggested that Ethan take a note of any potential smaller project ideas, as detailed in the induction/welcome documents. Ethan agreed to look out for any such topics while reading percolation and Firefighter related papers.


## 3. Plan

Plan for Ethan:
* Attend induction event (Wednesday 07-10-2020),
* Continue teaching (Java Programming 2 and Algorithmic Foundations 2) and preparation for tutorials,
* Continue reading about Percolation (focusing on more specific, graph-related papers) and Firefighter/other spread models, and
* Look at FATA social calendar and ensure attendance at Tuesday main meeting.


## 4. Follow-up

No follow-ups for Jess, Ethan will continue as in Plan (above) and discuss in next meeting.

**_Next meeting date: 14:00 13-10-20_**



_EK 06-10-2020_
