# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 15__
05-02-2021

[[14_28-01-21 | < Previous]] | [[15_05-02-21 | Next >]]

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_



## 1. Admin

Ethan has significantly refactored the current agency-based Java project, to deal with several minor mistakes and improve readability and functionality.


## 2. Research

Ethan had split his time roughly evenly between the code project (refactoring and addition of temporal progression) and working towards dynamical systems approaches related to the SIR network reading he has been doing. Specifically, he has begun to extend the results of the I. Kiss et al. paper to SIRP (p-protected) networks and examine the increasein the number of equations and in complexity resulting from this. Jess believes, from preliminary results Ethan has found, that it is likely we can show the increase is exponential in increasing vertices but polynomial in increasing states to the model.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* CODE:
  * Implement infrastructure for input and output. Consider file output (rather than console) and random graph input. Make sure to output seed of random graph so results can be verified in future if necessary.
  * Begin considering improvements in the heuristic defence approach. This seems like a reasonable candidate for now, but consider whether another heuristic approach may be closer to optimal.
* THEORY:
  * Continue exploring resulting systems of equations related to addition of a new state to SIR
  * Focus on how we could produce these systems algorithmically. Probably to do with finding connected sub-graphs.
  * Try and come up with an expression for the number of equations required by a given graph for SIR with some number of extra states.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: nothing to follow up.




**_Next meeting date: 12:00 11-02-2021_**



_EK 12:25 05-02-2021_
