# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 17__
25-02-2021

[< Previous](16_11-02-21.md) | [Next >](18_04-03-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan has done some work but not as much as perhaps would be expected owing to some personal circumstances he discussed with Jess, who was very understanding and gave him details of appropriate support to pursue.


## 2. Research

Ethan completed first iterations of Equations and Agency coding projects - the former can now generate the required equations, but cannot identify closures, and the latter can run models and output human and machine readable files as required.

Jess and Ethan discussed potentially formalising the approach to equation generation that Ethan has implemented in code. We could then use such documentation to identify the procedure for identifying and hopefully generating closures - possibly through contacting the original authors.

Jess suggested the use of the CSV parser that determines the winning strategies in models in generating graphs/graphics to better understand and represent the results of strategies.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* [x] Tidy up code - some refactoring to do in order to simplify `main` method in particular.
* [x] Formalise and document the algorithmic approach to generating equations, with an eye to identifying closures.
* [x] Use `Winner.java` to generate some graphs or graphics to represent the results of the data obtained.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above.

Name: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 04-03-2021_**



_EK 14:40 03-03-2021_
