# Closures

__Aim:__ derive a closed, exact system to describe an SIR epidemic on a network with fewer equations. 

__Method:__ Identify link between cut-vertices and bridges and the viability of closures, which allow us to write down an exact system of equations.

---

## Example 1

Starting from equations for singles and pairs, we obtain:
$$
\begin{align}

\langle \dot{S_i} \rangle & = -\sum^N_{j=1}T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j\rangle,\\

\langle\dot{I_i}\rangle & = \sum^N_{j=1}T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j\rangle - \gamma_i\langle I_i \rangle,\\

\langle\dot{S_iI_j}\rangle & = \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq i}T_{jk}\langle S_i S_j I_k \rangle - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq j}T_ik\langle I_k S_i I_j \rangle \\ & ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j \rangle - \gamma_i\langle S_i I_j \rangle,\\

\langle \dot{S_i S_j}\rangle & = - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq j}T_{ik}\langle I_k S_i S_j \rangle - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq i}T_{jk}\langle S_i S_j I_k \rangle,
\end{align}
$$

---

* This is _not a closed system,_ since we require the equations for triples. 
* For tree-like networks and certain other special cases, we have that the following closures hold and are exact. 
 
For all $i,j,k\in \{1,2,\dots,N\}$,
$$
\langle\dot{S_j}\rangle\langle\dot{S_i S_j I_k}\rangle
=\langle\dot{S_i S_j}\rangle\langle\dot{S_j I_k}\rangle
$$
holds for:
* All $j$ with links towards $i$,
* All $k$ with links towards $j$, and 
* $i\neq k$ (i.e. $T_{ij}\neq0$ and $T_{ji}\neq0$).

Further,
$$
\langle\dot{S_i}\rangle\langle\dot{I_k S_i I_j}\rangle
=\langle\dot{I_k S_i}\rangle\langle\dot{S_i I_j}\rangle
$$
holds for:
* All $i,j,k\in \{1,2,\dots,N\}$,
* All $k$ and $j$ with links towards $i$ (i.e. $T_{ik}\neq0$ and $T_{ij}\neq0$), and
* $j\neq k$.

---
* We can use these closures as substitutions to insert into the original system, yielding a closed system.
* This precise closure was the motivation in the original paper for identifying a more general result involving closures - previously, only this specific result had been proven to result in a precise (rather than approximate) system in tree like networks and other special cases
* Important: closures will require extra variables, e.g. equations for $(SS)$ pairs for the equation for $(SSI)$ triple..
* From numerically evaluating full system and then potential closures, authors show it is likely that _any exact closures need to keep loops in tact._

---

## Main Result

__Theorem 1:__ Let $G = {V,E}$ be a network with $N$ vertices. Consider a connected subset of vertices $F = {v_1,v_2,\dots,v_k}\subset V$ and assume $\exists v_{i^∗} \in F$ a cut-vertex in $G$, such that $F \setminus \{v_{i^∗}\}$ is partitioned into at least two disjointed components with vertices $F_1 = {v_1, v_2,\dots, v_{i−1}}$ and $F_2 = {v_{i+1}, v_{i+2},\dots, v_k}$ belonging to any such two, distinct and disjointed components or subnetworks. Then the following equation holds:

$$
\begin{align}
\langle Z_{v_1} Z_{v_2},& \dots Z_{v_{i-1}} S_{v_i*} Z_{v_{i+1}} \dots Z_{v_k} \rangle (t) = \\

&\frac{
	\langle Z_{v_1} Z_{v_2} \dots Z_{v_{i-1}} S_{v_i*}\rangle(t)
	\langle S_{v_i*} Z_{v_{i+1}} \dots Z_{v_k} \rangle}
	{\langle S_{v_i*} \rangle (t)}
	
\end{align}
$$  
where $Z_{v_i} = S$ or $I$ $\forall v_i \neq v_{i∗}$ , and $\langle \cdot \rangle$ denotes the probability of a given subgraph being in a given state at a given time.

---

## Upper Bound

__Theorem 2:__ Consider a graph with $N$ vertices, $E$ edges, $T$ triangles and no larger loops. The number of equations required to fully describe the system dynamics is less than $$2N+3E+7T\leq10N.$$

---

## Feasibility

1. Find all cut vertices using DFS, denote by $C$.
2. Splice original graph into subgraphs via cut vertices. This results in a family of subgraphs $G_1, G_2, \dots, G_P,$ where $G_i=\{V_i, E_i\}$, $i=1,2,\dots,P$ and each with frequency (counts) $f_1, f_2, \dots, f_P$ respectively. We can do this and preserve cut vertices in generated subgraphs.
3. Denote by $\text{Ind}(v_{i_j})$ for $j=1,2,\dots,L$ the number of subgraph $v_{i_j}$ belongs to. The subgraph is a generalisation of the loop concept, i.e. it needs to be connected with no further cut vertices. From results in the paper, closures within loops or subnetworks will not be exact.
4. Relation between subgraphs, their frequency and number of vertices in each subgraph will determine the number of equations required for an exact representation. This is made more precise with multipliers $m_1, m_2, \dots, m_P$ denoting the number of equations for the corresponding subnetwork, e.g.
	* Edge: 7 equations (4 for vertices, 3 at pair level)
	* Triangle: 22 equations (6 for vertices, 9 for edges, 7 for the triangles)
	* Cycle graph of 4 vertices: 45 equations
	* Toast graph: 57 equations

Hence, upper bound on number of equations required is
$$
N_{EQ}(G) = \sum^P_{i=1}m_if_i-2\sum^L_{j=1}(\text{Ind}(v_{i_j})-1).
$$

This is a sum across number of equations for all subgraphs and then accounting for unnecessary multiplications caused by cut-vertices being in multiple subgraphs.
* This could be improved further, but exact overestimate depends on interaction between structure of the network and epidemic dynamics - removing $SS$ variables would not considerably decrease number of equations (according to experimental evidence)

---

