## Methods

### Data collection

Using the example of dengue outbreks in Queensland, Australia between 2002 and 2016 from Queensland Health. This is a disease transmitted by mosquito vectors, outbreak risk rapidly increasing globally. Data includes anonymous infected individual details including onset dates, postcode and location of contraction. 


### Background

Consider a [[DEF. Hawkes Process|Hawkes process]] as fundamental diffusion framework as it is a non-Markovian extension of Poisson process, hence realises clustering of events in real world. General univariate Hawkes process defined with intensity function
$$
\displaystyle
\lambda(t)=\mu+\sum_{t_i<t}g(t-t_i),
$$
where $/mu$ represents background intensity by external influence and the sum characterises endogenous feedback by weighting influences of past events on future events. I.e., intensity of event occurences is dependent upon the history of preceding events.

Objective of given framework is to model bursty behaviour (spatiotemporally clustered) of disease outbreak across metapopulations by involving human mobility for topological pathways in a heterogeneous social system.


### Proposed Model

Authors propose [[DEF. LIPP|LIPP model]], which features exogeneity and endogeneity of a social system as integral components in realising bursty diffusion processes in reality. Model aims to quantify reflexivity (degree of feedback on prior events) of a social system through estimated model parameters and infer transmission routes and infection flow between regions.