# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 12__
14/01/2021

[[11_07-01-21 | < Previous]] | [[13_21-01-21 | Next >]]

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan hasn't done as much as he hoped, as he had 20 contact hours for Programming (IT) this week. This won't be the case in future, and he should be able to get more done in the following week. Ethan is looking forward to beginning tutoring on Jess' 1PX Python course.


## 2. Research

Ethan has finished reading the paper _Simulating SIR Processes on Networks Using Weighted Shortest Paths_ - he mentioned some of the key results from the work, and noted that the discussion at the end featured a summary of all of the results. Jess noted Ethan should pin down some of the more physics-related definitions, such as a disordered network, which Ethan believes is related to bond percolation and is commonly called a disordered system. Jess found some interesting, potentially related information on _hyper-disordered networks_ which Ethan could also look into.


## 3. Plan

Ethan: 
* Implementation of SIR network using `Agent` class in Java project
  * Use the results of the paper discussed above to identify high importance nodes. Using snapshots, is it possible to identify source node candidates at this scale?
* Continue reading - back-track citations using Google scholar from original paper from last semester and explore more interesting results.
* Try and code up even a really simple network with SIR spreading, if more for practice than anything

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 21-01-2021_**



_EK 11:25 18/01/2021_
