# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 13__
21-01-2021

[< Previous](12_14-10-21.md) | [Next >](14_28-01-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess discussed mini project - Uni recommends this is done in the first three months, but Jess suggested that they could use this over the next while to give Ethan some goals to work towards and achieve.

## 2. Research

Ethan explained he has been working on the Agent class, implementing Dijkstra's algorithm for shortest distances between two vertices and continuing surveying papers that cite the original larger paper he was looking at before the Christmas break. 

**Mini-project:** Jess suggested Ethan could undertake a sort of mini project, based on one of the New Year's goals from the last meeting of 2020. Jess suggested examining first the computational complexity implications of adding an extra (Protected) state to the usual SIR model based on the results of the paper Ethan has been focusing on. They would like to know what increase this has on the number of equations - e.g. one more equation per node, arithmetic increase, geometric? Does this affect feasibility of writing down an entire system of equations? Further, Ethan could continue working on `Agent` and use this (with the other code he has produced so far) to generate some basic models with agency imbued. This could naively model a vaccination strategy, by including self protection information, and use the traditional Firefighter notion of protection as influence, with a continuous and finite allocation rather than discrete (i.e. increase protection rating of 1 by 100% or 2 by 50% each and so on). With these two goals, Ethan should be able to bring together many threads he has worked on over the past months since the beginning of his PhD and hopefully get more of a feel for how the project should be progressing.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* To get back on track, start working on the two goals of the mini project:
  * [x] What happens if we add another state to the SIR model in the number of equations describing it?
  * [x] Implement some basic implementation of the model described in the above section.
  

## 4. Follow-up

Nothing to follow up on.


**_Next meeting date: 12:000 28-01-2021_**



_EK 13:10 21-01-2021_
