# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 14__
28-01-2021

[[13_21-01-21 | < Previous]] | [[15_05-02-21 | Next >]]

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan had just finished a meeting with his second supervisor, Alice. He had updated Alice with his progress since their last meeting, December 2020, including the current informal mini-project Jess and Ethan have embarked on. Alice noted that PRISM should prove interesting to look into and could possibly already implement much of what Ethan aims to achieve with the Java agency based network model, so Ethan should think of whether PRISM could be used for this or similar purposes and any justifications for or against its use.

Next week's usual meeting time is not great for Jess, who proposed moving the meeting to Friday 5th Feb at 11am.


## 2. Research

Ethan so far has created accessory code that lays out the preliminary data structures and useful methods that will be used in the model. Jess has kindly sent back very detailed and useful feedback on several design and coding questions Ethan had asked regarding the code so far and details of what to now implement and how to do so. They discussed Ethan's response ot the code feedback in the meeting and what Ethan still hopes to do before continuing to implement further code, specifically in careful design and planning which Ethan felt was the weakness of the previous Firefighter project he had worked on. Jess explained the modelling of complex contagions often takes into account adjustment of agent behaviour based on the proximity of others displaying particular behaviours (which may influence me into amending my behaviour in some way). This was part of the motivation behind her comments on Ethan's Agent class where we could base the peril rating not (just, always) on the closest infected vertex but (also) on the number of vertices within a certain proximity. Jess encouraged the use of informal class diagrams to understand the structure of the AgentModel project and gain a better understanding of where methods should live and how they interact with one another.

Ethan also discussed some of the preliminary work he had done on the I. Kiss et al. paper on Markovian SIR networks with Jess, namely his attempts to reproduce the systems of differential equations from the paper itself. Ethan asked Jess if she would contact Istvan and ask about the implementation of results mentioned in the paper that doesn't seem to be available on GitHub, which she agreed to do.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* Continue implementation of agency-based model (Java)
   * [x] Continue to clean up existing code, using Jess' feedback
   * [x] Can we use PRISM for this or similar purposes?
   * [x] Respond to design feedback and use this to formulate a plan for more effective implementation.
* Continue formal aspect of mini project
  * [x] Can we use PRISM to understand a formalisation of the agency-based mode? How would this formalised version look?
  * [x] Continue reading and understanding exact derivations given in Kiss et al. paper of systems of equations
  
Jess:
* Contact I. Kiss to see whether the GitHub link is intentionally empty or whether there exists implementation of the given results elsewhere that Ethan could get access to. 


## 4. Follow-up

Jess: Contact I. Kiss, as in plan.



**_Next meeting date: 11:00 05-02-2021_**



_EK 13:00 05-02-2021_
