# PHD MEETING
## Second Supervisor Meeting

__Meeting 2__
28-01-2021

[< Previous](12-20/2_01_01-12-2020) | [Next >](02-21/2_03_25-02-21)

_Alice Miller,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Alice and Ethan discussed the Prog(IT) course Alice is lecturing and Ethan is helping as a tutor for. Alice emphasised that Ethan should ensure not too much of his time outside of the labs is taken up with talking to the students and helping with questions and exercises.


## 2. Research

Ethan updated Alice on the mini-project work, especially the goal to implement an agency-based model of infection in Java. Alice noted that the SIR framework Ethan hopes to use has been extensively studied using PRISM, so Ethan should at least survey these pre-existing results and examine whether it could be a useful system for him to use in this implementation. Ethan should still continue with his Java implementation, but perhaps ask Doug or another PRISM-user to implement the model in PRISM and compare outcomes and results. Ethan really ought to formulate the model formally for this and examine the uses of model checking here.

Two similar ideas to look into were given by Alice: mobile network models and movile gossip networks. Both would be interesting to consider and examien pre-existing results of.



## 3. Plan

Ethan:
* Continue with the current mini-project, updating Alice as/when appropriate.

Both:
* Organise next meeting in February.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: Send GitHub link to Alice, in case she would like to read any meeting notes or see what Ethan has been up to more generally.



**_Next meeting date: TBD**



_EK 13:05 28-01-2021_
