# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 08__
26-11-2020

[< Previous](../11-20/07_19-11-20.md) | [Next >](../12-20/09_03-12-20.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan's self-isolation period ended on the date of the meeting, so the usual work output for the past week was not as expected but still more than the previous week. Ethan mentioned some social engagement, encouraged by Alice M, with other PhD students in similar areas and also that he is on the CompSci quiz team, who are playing against Maths and Stats tomorrow (27-11) after winning their match against Psychology some weeks ago.

Jess mentioned that she has been asked to suggest a second supervisor for Ethan (as encouraged by the School for PhD students). They both agreed Alice M, who helped Ethan with his initial although unsuccessful PhD application and takes an interest in the formal agency-based modelling approach Ethan is pursuing, would be an appropriate selection.

## 2. Research

Ethan is almost finished fixing the strange behaviour exhibited by the Permutation class, which started when Ethan changed the output variable of the relevant methods to a 2D Array so that the permutations calculated can be handled by the `NaiveOptimalFirefighter` class (and therefore used to explore optimal solutions, albeit slowly).

Ethan has also been doing some reading on complexity-related areas such as Knapsack and Jess suggested examining Subset Sum also. Jess stressed the importance of understanding this aspect of computing science, as it frequently comes up in the literature and they would expect Ethan's work to include some complexity-related discussion of Firefighter and other relevant problems.

Ethan is continuing to expand the Agent class with any useful information he comes up with, and will continue to update Jess especially when this class begins to see use and application.

## 3. Plan
Ethan: (similar to last week)
* Complete fix of Permutation
* Continue some reading on complexity theory
* Continue reading/thinking about agency application of Firefighter

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: continue with plan as above, in particular email Jess if there are any small issues she can look over before next meeting.

Jess: contact Alice M and discuss the possibility of her becoming Ethan's second supervisor (depending on her availability and so on).

_(Update 27-11: Alice has been in touch with Jess and confirmed to Ethan she is happy to be his second supervisor)._


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 03-12-20_**



_EK 16:30 27-11/2020_
