# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 16__
11-02-2021

[< Previous](../02-21/15_05-02-21.md) | [Next >](../02-21/17_25-02-21.md) 

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Next week (w/c 15/02) is a department reading week, meaning that there will be no teaching taking place to give teaching staff some time to catch up. Jess and Ethan agreed to not meet next week and instead keep the usual PhD meeting the week after (25/02).

## 2. Research

Ethan has made some significant changes and improvements to the current Agency project:
* Version control (separate repo [here](https://github.com/ethankelly/Agency))
* In/Out: written standard input, output and random classes to support input from a random graph generator class and output to text files (still very human readable for now, while testing the software).

Jess suggested Ethan consider implementing some other forms of defence in this model, and - although they will almost certainly not be optimal in most cases - he could at least compare how each performs on random graph instances of particular types. This would give Ethan a good idea of the direction he wants to pursue with this project, particularly experimentally (i.e. data he should collect, how to store and so on). Some ideas Jess came up with about defence approaches:
*  [x] Defend based on adjacency to fire, breaking ties between vertices based on degree of vertices. (DONE: 17-02-2021)
*  [x] Defend based on highest degree, breaking ties between equal degree vertices based on proximity to fire. (DONE: 17-02-2021)
* [x] Defend nodes based on how cheap they are to defend - i.e. where they already have high protection rating. (DONE: 16-02-2021)

The first two approaches seem to be common in stochastic implementations of firefighter, the latter would be more specific to the agency/influence based implementation Ethan has been working on.


Further, Ethan has begun coding a program that will produce the equations required for a given SIR (or variant, e.g. SIRP) model:
* So far, the program can produce the equations for singles (e.g. derivative of probability of vertex 1 being susceptible) which are then used to generate the required pairs of probabilities (e.g. derivative of probability of vertex 1 being susceptible and vertex 2 being infected).
* This can then, when finished, be easily generalised and adapted to cover the total equations (n-tuples, Ethan will need a method to determine the value of n for a given graph)
* Ethan noted that, in coding this, he is greatly helping his analytical understanding of producing these equations, so he will find it easier soon to return to coming up with an expression for the number of equations required by a given compartmental model on a certain graph.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* Continue with both coding projects:
    * [x] Focus on completing the n-tuple equation generator (at least for small n) and see if this can inform the analytic expression for the number of differential equations required to describe a SIR (or variant) model. Remember that the goal for this coding project is not the code itself but a better analytic understanding of this type of equation generation! Although it is exciting that Ethan may end up with an algorithmic approach to generating these equations, which the authors of the original paper suggested would be a useful thing to have.
    * [x] In the Agency project, try and implement some other defence strategies and output the result of each, comparing the results obtained on different randomly generated graphs.

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: Continue with plan as above.

Jess: nothing to follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 25-02-2021_**



_EK 13:25 11-02-2021_
