# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 50__
12-05-2022

[< Previous](../04/49_05-04-22.md | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Last week's meeting was used for discussion of 1PX exam marking.


## 2. Research

Ethan updated Jess on the work he has managed to do since returning from Malta and in-between marking during the exam period.

First, Ethan has been filling in an application for funding from the RSC for travel and subsistence for the BCC conference in July. Jess stated she is happy to help in any way necessary.

Ethan has also returned to the simulation code. He has amended the relevant data structures so that probability of infection is per-link rather than per-individual. He has done some planning for series of simulations and hopes to have this implemented, based on discussion in previous meeting, in the near future.

Ethan has been working on ways to extend and adapt the exact equation generation procedure. He has found some information on path decomposition and investigated ways it may be used as a pre-processing method for input graphs for which we wish to to generate equations describing exact epidemiologal systems. Jess helped Ethan follow this line of questioning with examples of path decomposition and potential lines of analogy to the original cut-vertex concept from Kiss' paper. Ethan thought it best to leave path and tree decomposition for the time being and follow these thoughts for clique cut-sets first.

Ethan has been writing some current research questions and aims to collate older research questions, along with information about the work that has been done towards them, in preparation for the APR in July.


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] Simulation code - use planning to implement necessary infrastructure to simulate and obtain averages, including envelope (lowest and highest 5%) and exact solution for later plotting

**Writing:**
- [ ] Continue working on thesis statement and research questions
- [ ] Application for RSC travel funding

**Planning:**




## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 10:00 17/05/22_**



_EK 12:32 12-05-22_
