# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 52__
24-05-2022

[< Previous](I.Z.Kiss_20-05-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin



## 2. Research

Jess and Ethan shared their thoughts following the meeting with Istvan the previous week. Jess requested the meeting so that Ethan could ask the questions outlined [here.](https://hackmd.io/@2dkYNbTEQqSgWui5OwM4MA/SkggSlbwc) Ethan was able to reduce his equation generation code significantly using Istvan's explanation of equation generation and both Ethan and Jess are comfortable with their understanding of the procedure and the required systems of equations.

Ethan and Jess discussed returning to the idea of protection/awareness allocation following broader discussion with Istvan. Ethan will aim to write up his previous work on the subject in the context of simulation and explore ways to introduce protection into current equation generation approach.

Istvan also mentioned Matlab code that Kieran Sharkey had produced for equation generation - Jess suggested in this meeting that Ethan should take another look at this and look at any previous notes explaining why he did not use this, so that this can be justified in any future writing.

Jess also put forward some ideas about introducing agency into compartmental models to link Ethan's current work with what he has previously worked on. E.g, Ethan may have several 'aware' states that have increasing probabilities of moving into a protected state, or separate a susceptible state into levels of awareness that - as an agent moves through these stages - their per-link probability of contraction reduces.


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] Further code testing and debugging (equation generation)
	- [ ] Key tests to write: is procedure still correct, after refactoring, for cut-vertex decomposition?

**Writing:**
- [ ] Make clear how all of current work builds and improves on existing work by others
	- [ ] Examine K J Sharkey's Matlab code (and notes written about this previously)
	- [ ] Read thesis discussed with Istvan about joining together graphs via cut-vertices
	- [ ] (If time permits) read up on Istvan's work on awareness
- [ ] Write up agency based epidemiological simulation code (from last year) - or at least build on existing writing

**Planning:**
- [ ] Outlines of potential chapters
	- [ ] 1st year - protection strategies in simulation
	- [ ] Currently - code for equation generation, cut-set identification and splicing to make this more feasible for some larger graphs, simulation done to show this leads to same results
	- [ ] Aim: chaper on larger cut-sets, specifically clique cut-sets
	- [ ] Aim: sets of non-exact (approx.) equations and how much more feasible the loosening of exactness makes procedure versus how much accuracy we lose
- [ ] What are the links between some of these chapters?
	- [ ] Work has been on general compartmental models - perhaps agency characteristics is what relates all of this work?
	- [ ] How could we introduce agency in interesting/meaningful ways into compartmental models?



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 11:00 31-05-22_**



_EK 11:58 24-05-22_
