# Using a delay-adjusted case fatality ratio to estimate under-reporting

## Report information
Authors: Timothy W Russell$^*$, Joel Hellewell$^1$, Sam Abbott$^1$, Nick Golding, Hamish Gibbs, Christopher I Jarvis, Kevin van Zandvoort, CMMID nCov working group, Stefan Flasche, Rosalind M Eggo, W John Edmunds & Adam J Kucharski.
\[*\] corresponding author
\[1\] contributed equally

Real time report | First online: 22-03-2020 available at https://cmmid.github.io/topics/covid19/global_cfr_estimates.html 

## Aim
To estimate the percentage of symptomatic COVID-19 cases reported in different countries using case fatality ratio estimates based on data from the ECDC, correcting for delays between confirmation-and-death.

## Code and data availability

The code is publically available at https://github.com/thimotei/CFR_calculation. The data required for this analysis is a time-series for both cases and deaths, along with the corresponding delay distribution. We scrape this data from ECDC, using the NCoVUtils package.

The under-reporting estimates for all countries can be downloaded as a single .csv file https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cmmid/cmmid.github.io/master/topics/covid19/reports/under_ascertainment_estimates.csv

Similarly, global prevalence estimates can be downloaded as a single .csv file https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cmmid/cmmid.github.io/master/topics/covid19/reports/currentPrevalenceEstimates_12_06_2020.csv

## References
1. Russell TW, Golding N, Abbott S et al. Reconstructing the global dynamics of under-ascertained covid-19 cases and infections. medRxiv 2020.
2. Russell TW, Hellewell J, Jarvis CI et al. Estimating the infection and case fatality ratio for covid-19 using age-adjusted data from the outbreak on the diamond princess cruise ship. medRxiv 2020.
3. Verity R, Okell LC, Dorigatti I et al. Estimates of the severity of covid-19 disease. medRxiv 2020.
4. Guan W-j, Ni Z-y, Hu Y et al. Clinical characteristics of coronavirus disease 2019 in china. New England Journal of Medicine 2020.
5. Shim E, Mizumoto K, Choi W et al. Estimating the risk of covid-19 death during the course of the outbreak in korea, february-march, 2020. medRxiv 2020.
6. Kucharski AJ, Edmunds WJ. Case fatality rate for ebola virus disease in west africa. The Lancet 2014;384:1260.
7. Nishiura H, Klinkenberg D, Roberts M et al. Early epidemiological assessment of the virulence of emerging infectious diseases: A case study of an influenza pandemic. PLoS One 2009;4.
8. Linton NM, Kobayashi T, Yang Y et al. Incubation period and other epidemiological characteristics of 2019 novel coronavirus infections with right truncation: A statistical analysis of publicly available case data. Journal of Clinical Medicine 2020;9:538.
9. He X, Lau EH, Wu P et al. Temporal dynamics in viral shedding and transmissibility of covid-19. Nature medicine 2020;26:672–5.
10. Abbott S MJ Hellewell J. NCoVUtils: Utility functions for the 2019-ncov outbreak. doi:105281/zenodo3635417 2020.