## Limitations

The authors provide a comprehensive list of the issues (largely in assumptions) inhenrent in the research.

Implicit in assuming that the under-reporting is $\frac{1.4\%}{\text{cCFR}}$ for a country is that deviation away from assumed $1.4\%$ CFR is down exclusively  to under-reporting. In actuality, they claim burden on healthcare systems is likely a contributing factor to highter than $1.4\%$ CFR estimates as well as many country-specific factors.

The following is a list of other prominent assumptions made in the analysis the authors have pointed out:
- Assume people are tested upon hospitalisation - concievable that they are tested before hospitalisation, such as Germany and South Korea
- Assume hoispitalisation to death from early (Dec19) Wuhan is representative of all other countries by using the same distribution parameters and that all countries have the same risk and age profile as Wuhan.
- Since severity of illness due to COVID-19 known to increase with age, countries with older populations will naturally see higher death rates. They are extending analysis to adjust fo age distribution fo countries with more than five reported deaths and where age distribution data is available.
- All results they obtain are linked and based by the baseline CFR that was assumed to be $1.4\%$.
- Under-reporting estimate is sensitive to the baseline CFR, so small errors in this value leads to large errors in estimate fo under-reporting.
- Several sources of uncertainty in analysis:
	- Reported mean and standardc distribution of delay distributions
	- cCFR for each country on each day
	- Baseline CFR.
- They therefore use upper and lower mean and SD of delay distribution to produce widest interval, the other two uncertainties are carried through into subsequent calculations. Ongoing extension is being carried out into a fully Bayesian model, dealing with these uncertainties more rigorously.
- Prevalence estimates are very rough as they are calculated using cumulative incidence of adjusted case curves over the last ten days, estimated from the mean of the distribution for the infectious period.