# Definitions, terminology and preliminaries
-  For $f\in\mathbb{Z^+}$, an $f$*-rooted graph* is an ordered pair $(G, F)$ where $G$ is a graph and $F\subseteq G$ is an $f$*-subset* of vertices of $G$ called *roots.* 
- A *rooted graph* is one which is $f$*-rooted* for some $f$. When $F={r}$, we can write $(G,r)$.
- Let $f,~g\in\mathbb{Z^+}$ and let $(G,F)$ be an $f$*-rooted* graph, whose vertices are initially unlabelled.
### Example
Deterministic, discrete process: at time $t=0$, vertices in $F$ are labelled as burning (a set of $f$ fires *breaks out* at these vertices). At each subsequent time $t=1,2,...$, a set of $d$ or fewer unlabelled vertices are labelled as defended, then each unlabelled neighbour of a vertex labelled as burning is labelled as burning.

This labelling procedure models the spread among the vertices of $G$ of fires that break out at vertices in a set $F$ and are defended by $d$ firefighters. If the process terminates in a finite number of steps, the fires are said to be *contained*. The containment question is of interest for infinite graphs only, but the question of the number of time units required to contain a fire or fires is of interest for all graphs.

Once a vertex is labelled as *burning* (or equivalently, *burned*) or *defended,* it remains as such. We see that at each step, the set of burning vertices induces a connected subgraph and, if there are vertices neither burning nor defended at end of process, the set of defended vertices is a vertex cut. A vertex is called *saved* if it never burns. The *damage* is the total number of vertices that are burning at the end of the process. For a finite graph with $n$ vertices, the number of vertices saved plus the damage equals $n$. The notation $\textrm{MVS}(G, F;d)$ stands for the maximum number of vertices that can be saved in $G$ when the fires break out at the vertices in $F$ over all possible ways of defending vertices using $d$ firefighters.

The following propositions summarise some easy computations:
### Proposition 2.1:
1. For $n>=2$, MVS$(K_n,r;1)=1$.
2. For $n>=3$, MVS$(C_n, r;1)=n-2$
3. For $n>=2$, MVS$(P_n, r; 1)=$
		$n - 1$  if $r$ is a leaf,
		$n - 2$  otherwise.
	Where $P_n$ denotes the path on $n$ vertices.
4. For $n>=2$, MVS$(Q_n, r; 1)=n$, where $Q_n$ denotes the $n$-cube.

### Proposition 2.2

Suppose the fire breaks out at vertex $r$ of the tree T. In an optimum strategy, each vertex defended is adjacent to a burning vertex.
