# Minimising expected damage and maximum damage

Two scenarios involving $f$ fires breaking out at a random subset of vertices of a finite graph $G$ and being defended by $d$ firefighters are discussed in this section. In the first, the goal is to determine graphs for which expected damage is minimised. The second sees how to determine the graphs for which the maximum damage is minimised.

Let $(G, F)$ be an $f$-rooted graph. Let $\textrm{mindam}(F,d)=n-\textrm{MVS}(G, F;d),$ the minimum damage if the $f$ fires are defended by $d$ firefighters. If each $f$-subset is equally likely to be the location where the fires start, the expected damage is given by

$\displaystyle E(G, f;d)=\frac{1}{\begin{bmatrix} |V(G)| \\ f \end{bmatrix}}\sum_{|X|=f}\textrm{mindam}(F, d).$

The surviving rate (Cai and Wang) is given by

$\displaystyle\rho(G, f, d) = \frac{1}{\begin{bmatrix} |V(G)| \\ f \end{bmatrix}} \sum_{F\subseteq V}\frac{\textrm{MVS}(G, F; d)}{|V|}=1-\frac{1}{|V|}E(G, f; d).$

This is the average percentage of vertices that can be saved when $f$ fires randomly break out at vertices of $G$. For given positive integers $f$ and $d$, a graph $G$ is called *optimal* if $E(G, f; d)$ is minimum over all graphs with the same number of vertices as $G$.

### Theorem 6.1
Suppose $f=d=1$. A connected graph $G$ is optimal if and only if $G$ is a tree such that
1. each vertex has at most two neighbours of degree at least , and
2. each vertex has at most one neighbour of degree at least 3.

Thus, when there is one fire and one firefighter, the optimal graphs on $n$ vertices are caterpillars in which any two vertices of degree at least three are at distance at least three. These include paths and stars. It turns out that a star is always an optimal graph when there is a single firefighter, irrespective of the number of fires.
Let $B_{k,t}$ denote the tree obtained from a star on $t+k+1$ vertices by subdividing $t$ of its edges once each.

### Theorem 6.2
Suppose $f=d=2$. Then, a graph $G$ with $n\geq 13$ vertices is optimal if and only if $G\cong B_{n-9,4}.$

Cai and Wang have determined lower bounds on the surviving rate of [[DEF. Trees]], [[DEF. Outerplanar graphs]] and [[DEF. Halin graphs]]. Recall that a graph is *outerplanar* if it has a plane embedding in which all vertices are on the same face and is a *Halin graph* if it can be formed from an outerplane embedding of a tree with no vertices of degree two by adding a cycle through its leaves in counterclockwise order.

### Theorem 6.3
$\displaystyle \rho(G, 1;1)>\begin{cases} 1-\sqrt{2/n} &\textrm{if }G\textrm{ is a tree with }n\textrm{ vertices,} \\ 1/6 &\textrm{if }G\textrm{ is an outerplanar graph,} \\ 3/10 &\textrm{if }G\textrm{is a Halin graph with at least 5 vertices.}\end{cases}$

According to Cai and Wang, the bounds given in this theorem are not tight! Finding improved lower bounds is an open problem, as well as extending the results to other classes of graphs. Given that trees, outerplanar and Halin graphs are all planar, it is natural to consider whether there is a constant lower bound for the surviving rate of a planar graph. However, they note that $\displaystyle \lim_{n\to\infty}\rho(K_{2, n},1; 1)=0$, so no such lower bound exists in general. We make the following conjecture.

### Conjecture 6.4
There is a positive constant $c$ such that evey nontrivial planar graph $G$ of maximum degree three satisfies $\rho(G, 1; 1)\geq c$.

## mmp-graphs
For $f, d\in\mathbb{Z}^{+}$, an *mmd-graph* is a graph $G$ such that $\max_{|X|=f}mindam(x,d)$ is minimised over all graphs on the same number of vertices as $G$. When $f=d=1$, the mmd-graphs are exactly paths and cycles. This is also true when $f=d=2$ and the number of vertices is at least 11. In this case, thee are two further mmd-graphs on 10 vertices.

Let $S_{2n+1}$ be the graph obtained by subdividing each edge of a star on $n+1$ vertices exactly once. Suppose that $n=5q+r$ where $1\leq r\leq5.$ Let $F_n$ be the tree constucted from $q+1$ disjoint paths $L_1, L_2, ..., L_{q+1}$, such that $L_1, L_2, ..., L_q$ have 5 vertices and $L_{q+1}$ has $r$ vertices, by adding edges joining a centre vertex of $L_i$ to a centre vertex of $L_{i+1}$ for $1\leq i\leq q$.

### Theorem 6.5
Suppose that there are $f$ fires and $d$ firefighters.
1. If $n\leq 2f+1$, then any tree on $n$ vertices is an mmd-graph.
2. If $f\leq 3\textrm{~and~}n\geq 4f$, then a path on $n$ vertices is an mmd-graph.
3. If $f/geq 3$ and $2f+1<n\leq 4f-1$, then:
	a. If $n=2m+1$, then $S_n$ is an mmd-graph, and
	b. If $n=m+2$ and $\displaystyle d\geq\frac{m-f+1}{2}$, then $S^{\prime}_{n}$ is an mmd-graph.
4. If $f\geq 4,~n/geq 5f-4 \textrm{~and~} d/geq f$, then a path on $n$ vertices is an mmd-graph.
5. If $f\geq 4$ and $2f+1<n<5f-4$, then
	a. If $f=3t+1$ (so that $6t+3<n<15t+1), then
		i. If $6t+3<n\leq 10t+5$, then $S_n$ is an mmd-group when $n$ is odd and $S^{\prime}_n is an mmd-graph when $n$ is even;
		ii. If $10t+5<n\leq 15t$, then $F_n$ is an mmd-graph.
	b. If $f=3t+2$ (so that $6t+5<n<15t+6$), then
		i. If $6t+5<n\leq 10t+9$, then $S_n$ is an mmd-graph when $n$ is odd and $S^{\prime}_n$ is an mmd-graph when $n$ is even, and
		ii. If $10t+9<n\leq 15t+5$, then $F_n$ is an mmd-graph.
	c. If $f=3t+3$ (so that $6t+7<n<15t+11), then
		i. If $6t+7<n\leq10t+13$, then $S_n$ is an mmd-graph when $n$ is odd and $S^{\prime}_n$ is an mmd-graph when $n$ is even, and
		ii. If $10t+13<n\leq 15t+10, then $F_n$ is an mmd-graph.