In computational models of disease, we often see approaches beginning with games or spreading processes on graphs. This ensures we begin at an inevitable restriction in our modelling capacity, namely the lack of agency. If we take standard games on graphs such as _Firefighter,_ our moves each turn are binary and the contagion we model propagates entirely deterministically. To create a more realistic model, we can return to the original games and imbue features of agency: for instance, individuals might have an attribute like 'protection' that, combined with some probability of infection inherent to the contagion, determines whether the individual contracts the propagating disease when a direct infection pathway is present (i.e. the agent is adjacent to an infected agent). 

Further, we can use the compartmental framework to generalise and formalise this approach. If we define some states that individual agents can inhabit such as _susceptible, infected_ and _recovered_ we have a century of work to draw from in understanding the model from a dynamical systems perspective. We can extend this to include further states, such as a _protected_ state which might represent someone with a protection attribute (as above) sufficiently high that it is not possible for them to become infected. In context, this might occur through extensive PPE, vaccination and so on. Our research involves creating an algorithmic approach for generating systems of equations that describe such compartmental models exactly, so that the same idea - implementing features of agency in models of infectious disease - can be approached from d4frgrfrrr