## Introduction

Authors note that modeling disease spread on networks is very difficult. Lots of literature in the field of compartmental models with different variables and differ in approach, either averages taken at population level or full state space considered for a probabilistic round. Significant challenges in extending results for loopless networks to networks with loops or clustered networks. 

Authors aim to present exact, deterministic representations of Markovian SIR epidemics on networks first without and then with loops. They will examine structural properties of networks and viability of  that allow us to write exact systems that can be numerically evaluated. Equations start at level of node, consider exact probability of nodes being susceptible/infected/recovered. 

Assume a network with $N$ nodes with weighted connectivity and transmissibility rate matrix given by $T=(T_{ij})_{i,j=1,2,\dots,N},$ where $T_{ii}=0~\forall i=1,2,\dots,N$, the evolution equations for singles and pairs are:
$$
\begin{align}

\langle \dot{S_i} \rangle & = -\sum^N_{j=1}T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j\rangle,\\

\langle\dot{I_i}\rangle & = \sum^N_{j=1}T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j\rangle - \gamma_i\langle I_i \rangle,\\

\langle\dot{S_iI_j}\rangle & = \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq i}T_{jk}\langle S_i S_j I_k \rangle - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq j}T_ik\langle I_k S_i I_j \rangle - T_{ij}\langle S_iI_j \rangle - \gamma_i\langle S_i I_j \rangle,\\
\langle S_i S_j\rangle & = - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq j}T_{ik}\langle I_k S_i S_j \rangle - \sum^N_{k=1,k\neq i}T_{jk}\langle S_i S_j I_k \rangle,
\end{align}
$$
where $\langle A_i \rangle$ is the time-dependent probability of a person $i$ being in state $A$ and expressions of the form $\langle A_i B_j \rangle$ denote time-dependent probability that individuals $i$ and $j$ are in states $A$ and $B$ respectively. We assume all processes (infection and recovery) are independent Poisson processes, with per-link infection rate denoted $\tau$ and absorbed in $T$ and rates of recovery $\gamma_i~(j=1,2,\dots,N)$. 

This is a genera model formulation from a network perspective, but in this paper all numerical simulations carried out using undirected and unweighted networks with per-contact transmission rate specified explicitly and with same recovery rate for all nodes. Above system is not closed, since equations for triples are required.

Regarding the equations above: (remark 1) 
- Equations emerge naturally, from nodes and building to higher moments.
- Equations don't cover every possible config of states across connected subnetworks.
	- E.g. exact equations don't require knowledge of pairs such as $\langle I_i I_j \rangle$ as these are not required by system dynamics
- All triples that appear are such that the middle node is susceptible. In tree-like network, effectively means nodes to the left and to the right of the middle have not communicated since the only way is through the middle susceptible node, and hence technically their states are independent
- Closures will require extra variables not previously needed, e.g. evolution equations for (SS) pairs (e.g. $\langle S_iS_j \rangle$) are needed - this is required by the closure of an (SSI) triple (e.g. $\langle S_iS_jI_k \rangle$)
- Additional closures above and beyond what the equations require and emerge naturally may not hold - this is not relevant, as these aren't required to derive a closed, exact system with fewer equations.