# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 41__
02-02-2022


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Meeting for this week was rescheduled and meeting for following week has been set for Tue 8/02/22 at 10am.


## 2. Research

Ethan has been continuing with his plan to write an expression for the number of equations we need to generate for a path with a general compartmental model of disease. He has been struggling to find the right concepts to pin down the underlying combinatorics, so he presented his work so far to Jess, who suggested counting the walks of maximum length $t$ on the transition graph to yield the number of combinations of states that we need to consider for a given $t$-tuple.

Jess pointed Ethan to the following 'folklore theorem:' _The $(i,j)^{\text{th}}$ entry of $A^k$, where $A = A(G)$ is the adjacency matrix of a graph $G$, is the number of walks of length $k$ from vertex $v_i$ to vertex $v_j$ (not necessarily distinct) that exist in $G$._ Ethan should use this to count the walks in the transition graph for each tuple size and take these as the multipliers for the number of combinations for each corresponding tuple of that size.

Ethan will then see about verifying this result on paths and extending this to cycles. If he finishes that, he will continue considering the other graph classes discussed in the previous week.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] Complete work on expression for number of equations for a path graph on $n$ vertices:
	- [ ] Obtain expression
	- [ ] Verify expression, using examples as an initial sanity check
	- [ ] Write up in Overleaf document
- [ ] If expression is correct for paths, see if it can be extended to cycles and carry out same verification and write up in Overleaf doc
- [ ] Move on to other graph classes from previous week


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 10:00 08-02-2022_**



_EK 20:50 02-02-22_
