# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 42__
08-02-2022

[< Previous](../02/41_02-02-22.md) | [Next >](../02/43_14-02-2022.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

No admin to report.


## 2. Research

Email to Prof Kiss: Jess reviewed and mostly happy, although would likely helpful for recipient if Ethan added current reasoning for omission of particular tuples.

Overleaf doc:
 - Transition graph not quite the correct concept - need to consider another subgraph of transition graph containing only those transitions (and incident states) that two vertices be in each of the transition states to induce the transition, as these are the dynamically interesting transitions.
 - Consider class of graphs with poly(n) subgraphs - not true for a tree, not true for a star, possibly true for limited caterpillars/cactii,
 - Formal explanation of what constitutes a 'valid tuple' i.e. dynamically significant, required in full/exact/deterministic system of equations to describe the model
 - Some folklore theorems/lemmas here with bad proofs - either actually prove or state they are folklore
 - Explain why lemma 2.1 is relevant for paths, as motivation for considering it


## 3. Plan

Ethan: amend email to Prof Kiss and continue work on overleaf document. Extend existing work to other graph classes until equation generation procedure is intractible, at which point start exploring alternative modelling scenarios that  have some of same benefits.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above. To discuss next time: possible BCC attendance at Lancaster Uni, funding closes 28/02.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 15:00 14/02/2022_**



_EK 14:15 10-02-22_
