# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 43__
14-02-2022

[< Previous](../02/42_08-02-22.md) | [Next >](../02/44_21-02-2022.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

No admin to report.


## 2. Research

Email to Prof Kiss: Ethan has revised and ready to send in coming week.

Overleaf doc:
 - Using _filter graph_ (working title) rather than transition graphs means the generation procedure has been much better defined and identified
 - During discussion, Jess made several suggestions in comments for Ethan to consider, mostly in Section 2
 - Research question from last APR: when is this approach a better/worse idea than e.g. simulation (Monte Carlo)?

Jess also discussed some graph-theoretic concepts and ideas that might help Ethan in understanding this research question about when this approach is feasible, specifically about using properties of graphs with poly many sub-graphs.

Jess introduced Ethan to State Space Graphs, where edges a dynamical system is the walks in the graph. This may help Ethan better understand the feasibility of his approach.

Ethan also mentioned he hoped to attend BCC in July, so would apply for funding soon. Jess was happy to provide a letter of support, as required by the application, and agreed to help look for a source of funding for the registration fee.


## 3. Plan

Ethan: 
 - [ ] Adress comments in Overleaf doc
 - [ ] Return to equation generation code and implement new approach as defined in Overleaf doc to see if correct equations are returned, at least for paths for time being
 - [ ] Consider possible approaches to bounding utility of this approach, e.g. how low $p$ are we considering for ER graphs before approach is unfeasible? Experimental, but possibly a good place to start


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above.

Jess: letter of support for Ethan's funding application to attend BCC in July.


**_Next meeting date: 13:00 21/02/2022_**



_EK 14:00 15-02-22_
