# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 44__
21-02-2022


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Next meeting date: Thursday, 3rd of March due to industrial action.


## 2. Research

Ethan has returned to his previous equation generation code to improve it using his new, better defined approach to generation.

Jess and Ethan discussed theoretical and practical comparisons of complexity for equation generation procedure. A theoretical approach will involve identifying the complexity of simulation, i.e. a combination of the complexity of a single simulation and the number of times we need to simulate. The number of simulations may not have a clear-cut expression, as this is so dependent on the parameters involved. A practical comparison would involve comparing particular graphs and determining the number of simulations required to get within some degree of accuracy to some actual answer from a system of equations. Ethan should remember that simulation will be better in all but specific cases, but better defining the class of specific cases would answer one of his research questions.

Jess suggested that, rather than use a power-set to generate all sub-graphs, Ethan could use a combinatorial graph searching algorithm. This would be as bad as the power-set approach for pathological input, but could do better for sparse and small graphs. Jess gave Ethan a very helpful introduction to this approach and gave him the beginnings of some pseudocode.

Ethan also expressed some concerns with his rate of progress and Jess gave some very helpful ways both Jess and Ethan can make Ethan aware of the rate of his own progress and understand the larger course Ethan's project is on at any given time, e.g. working towards writing a paper or a chapter of the project. One such navigational tool Ethan may choose to consider (but should go away and think about this) is the outline of a possible paper:

**Computational feasibility of exact solutions to networked models of disease using ODEs** (working title)

**Abstract and intro** (do last)

**Story of the paper:**
- Sometimes ODE approach is feasible, sometimes not
- Will discuss when and why, using theoretical and practical approach
- Theoretical:
	- Bounds on numbers of equations for different graph classes
	- Description of complexity of ODE solver
	- Conclusion: only feasible on graphs with poly-many connected subgraphs (or similar classes)
- Practical:
	- Solver versus simulation comparisons

| Graph       | ODE 		| Simulation  |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Path        | ?      		| ?      	  |
| Cycle  	  | ?	        | ?      	  |
| Sparse ER	  | ?	        | ?      	  |
etc.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- **Meta:** (plan paper)
	- [x] Write up planned paper in some helpful format that can be easily changed, manipulated, annotated, etc.
- **Writing:** (intros in plan paper/Overleaf doc)
	- [x] Paragraph introduction into ER graphs (to begin discussion of sparse ones wrt equation generation)
	- [x] Para intro to graphs with poly-many sub-graphs.
		- Why do we care? (i.e. number of sub-graphs bounds number of equations)
		- Examples of graphs in this class, such as paths and cycles (does K have a list of examples?)
- **Coding:** (aiming to replace power set with the below approach)
	- [x]  Begin work on combinatorial search
		- [x] Set of vertices as a parameter (Tuple) to generator method
		- [x] Generator method thhat, given a state,  can generate child states.
	- [x] Bonus: maintain a record of all states already seen



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: letter of support for Ethan's funding application to attend BCC in July.


**_Next meeting date: 14:00 03/03/2022_**



_EK 16:00 21-02-22_
