# PHD MEETING

20-11-2023

[< Previous]() | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Hunter_


## 1. Admin


## 2. Research

Different cost functions:
 - Cost just vertex (costs same for each vertex
 - Cost depends on:
	 - Just neighbourhood
	 - Distance from fire
	 - Entire graph, entire state of burning, order in which they burn, etc. (very complex)
	 - Just vertices $k$-distance from the vertex
Reason to consider - how difficult to compute? Size of cost function, time to compute. Keep in mind what we are using for, for now path containability

We can decide path containability with just the cost function definition - if we can do this comparison between everything being in danger agains all others being safe, this is a good idea (or just say this is very clear).

Can also say there are plenty that trivially meets path containability, such as binary costs and uniform costs.


Influential costs - could be thought of as a restriction, e.g. if everyone has cost within a bound of the average of their neighbours. Clearly a restriction of the cost function. Generalisation: everyone starts with a number representing their 'opinion,' e.g. how easy they are to vaccinate. Then, we intervene on individuals and this influences neighbourhood and reduces opinion costs. However, that seems more related to infectious vaccination. Influential costs and infectious vaccines related, save to later.

Thinking about PathContainable and whether restrictions are stronger than we need.

SAT variant - setting a small number of things to true? Tree with lots of paths, each path one clause, if I can defend a vertex on one path I can defend a corresponding vertex on another path for free (because they are the same variable) and cost to defend the negated variable is enormous.

Without PathContainable.2, can I come up with an example (set of costs or something) that makes is better to defend elsewhere?

At least start with porting result for .1 from original paper.
## 3. Plan

 - [x] MSO - Thanks to Laura, have something to check which variant of MSO is needed (we think counting MSO)
 - [ ] Budget-Fire and Budget-Fire-with-Reserve are equivalent problems - ask Jess to check
 - [ ] Poly. time restrictions
	 - [ ] Path containability
	 - [ ] $P_k$-free - Jess to read when possible
	 - [ ] Interval - Jess and Ethan to work on together, or wait until JK session on DP
 - [ ] Parameters
	 - [ ] CFire is in XP by longest path (and...) - Jess to read
	 - [x] FPT by TW (and...) - Ethan to check
 - [x] Influential costs
	 - [x] Cost depends on those around
	 - [x] Influential spread


_EH 10:16 20-11-23_
_Updated (bFire and bFireRes to discuss next meeting) EH 09:32 23-11-23_
