It becomes more evident by the day that networks are integral to human life. With COVID-19, we have experienced the alarming rate at which a pandemic can manoeuvre through networks; the prevelant discussion of 'fake news' demonstrates the harmful effects the rate of dissemination can have. Of course, these issues are by no means novel but they show that the scope and applications of modelling contagion across given spatial domains is remarkably broad and pertinent to much of our experience as social animals. [^1]

One of the most versatile models used for these situations is the Firefighter Problem: we will go on to discuss this in depth below. This is an important example of a deterministic and discrete-time game which we propose can be used as a foundation for modelling the spread of disease, ideas and so on across domains such as populations and social networks.

To demonstrate this, we will employ the use of game theoretic and probabilistic methods to analyse varying strategies for different versions of the Firefighter Problem to more fully contextualise the problem for our various applications. For instance, we would consider the use of varying rates of infection to model the effectiveness of "firewalls" or self-isolation in a highly contagious pandemic scenario such as COVID-19 and analyse the outcomes and most effective strategies to optimise the outcome - minimising the likelihood of the maximum worst outcome. Further, we aim to use similar techniques to determine how an underground revolutionary communication network could best protect itself from the implications of betrayal and subversion when no 'defenders' analagous to firefighters in the base problem are present.[^2]







[^1]: S. Finbow, G. MacGillivray, *The Firefighter Problem: A survey of results, directions and questions.*
[^2]: G. Gunther and B. L. Hartnell, On M-connected and k-neighbour-connected graphs, *Graph Theory, Combinotorics, and Applications,* pp. 585-596, 1991

