# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 31__
10-06-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

No PhD meeting next week as Jess is on annual leave.


## 2. Research

### Equations Generation

Ethan updated Jess with Equations generation code progress. He has now completed the splicing method, which was causing issues previously, and has been testing this thoroughly. He now needs to test the procedure functions correctly when the generated sub-graphs have the relevant equations generated.

Ethan should now think about the next steps for the equations generation code, for instance look into Java packages that solve differential equation systems and the format the current code would need to produce equations in to use such packages.

### Report writing

Jess and Ethan discussed the research plan - Jess had sent some very helpful, detailed feedback on the previous draft in the past week, which Ethan has addressed and produced a further draft. The two discussed the latest version and the following points were made:
- Conference talk (section 3):
	- Title case for title of the talk?
	- Mention further contact as a result of talk
- Fig 1 caption: random may be a little misleading, reads as though a new random number is assigned every turn.
	- Ethan should make it clear that peril-related defence ratings are updated every turn but random numbers are assigned once and remain the same for the rest of the game
	- Expand on why this is interesting - we are assigning a value (uniformly at random for time being, maybe not permanently) related to simulated personality
- Results plots and explanation
	- Ethan should explain the experiments that were run, the question they hoped to answer and whether the results obtained have answered that question. How many graphs, how many vertices in each, etc.?
	- E.g. question may have been about performance of defence strategies in saving highest percentage of the graph
	- Note that these are three heuristic methods (plus random, for comparison) - all three are greedy algorithms, they are just greedy about different things. 
	- Maybe put this explanation and the plots in a dedicated sub-subsection
	- Text is very small in charts!
	- 'P Value' should probably be something like 'Erdos Renyi p-parameter' - more descriptive, less ambiguous
	- $p$ value should be explained in the captions
- Remove section 3.3.3 - Irregular Population Density.

Jess and Ethan also discussed, for the final section of the report, potential journals and conferences Ethan should add as goals/milestones in the next year.
- [Epidemics](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/epidemics) may be an option
- [SMB](https://www.smb.org/) could be an option for a conference but does not have an associated publication
- PLOS ONE is also an option - example of a paper Jess had published available [here](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0118127)
- Ask Alice about Journal of Symmetry, since the conference is only in odd years. 
- A workshop may be a suitable place to start also
- Graphs as Models - ask Alice, she ran this in 2017

Ethan can also ask the examiners questions about which journals/conferences may be suitable for this work.


## 3. Plan

- [ ] Complete progression report and submit documentation in good time for the upcoming progression meeting (24/06/21) with improvements outlined above.
- [ ] Test equations generation code now the splice functionality is correctly implemented
- [ ] Test and refactor equations generation code where appropriate


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 24-06-21 _**



_EK 13:45 10-06-21_
