# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 32__
24-06-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan's annual progress review is at 3pm today.


## 2. Research

For the annual progress review, Ethan completed the report last week and submitted it to the examiners and convenor. Ethan has also been preparing a brief oral presentation to summarise the key pieces of work he has completed and aims and objectives he has identified for the next year.

In his work with a fellow PhD student from the virology centre, Ethan has been exploring different network models that have been used to simulate foot-and-mouth outbreaks and trying to recreate (using provided C++ code) results in the relevant papers. Ethan hopes that this will allow him to apply the same framework to different datasets.

Ethan has also been exploring different differential equation solvers for his equation generation code - he thinks he has settled on using Apache Math, but he will try some small-scale examples to ensure this is the most appropriate option.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [X] Attend the annual progress review meeting
- [ ] Continue trying to reproduce the modelling results from the review of network model approaches to foot-and-mouth outbreaks and researching other possible network modelling frameworks in this area of computational biology
- [ ] Try some small-scale examples using the Apache Math ODE solver and ensure this is an appropriate choice for the equations code - if not, do the same with other options for ODE solvers in Java.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 01-07-2021_**



_EK 11:23 25-06-21_
