# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 45__
03-03-2022


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Next week's meeting: Tuesday 8th March, 16:00.

Ethan has submitted his application for funding to attend the BCC with Jess's letter of support. 


## 2. Research

Ethan would like to experimentally determine threshold for ER graphs where no longer feasible:
- Pick some values from, say, 0.01 upwards, 
- Find transition from manageable number of connected subgraphs to umanageable by plotting of mean number of connected subgraps
- Maybe start with 50 vertices and make sure result holds for larger graphs
- Probably an expression for expected number of connected subgraphs to find analytically, eg 
	- how many subgraphs of size 2 in terms of p? m pairs in total, for each the probability it exists is p,  mp of size 2
	- how many of size 3? etc.

Criterion 3 for tuple necessity: 
- Walk notion only really works for paths. 
- To generalise, maybe something to do with cut-sets: 
	- "for vertex set $V^{\prime}$ inducing $G^{\prime}$ there is no cut-set of edges in $G^{\prime}$ composed only of edges not in the filter graph." 

Proof of claim about generating tuples for graphs with polynomially many subgraphs: 
- Show I can generate the connected subgraphs in poly time
	- This may not be given - statement may need to be amended to say 'if we can generate all subgraphs in poly time, then...'
- Show I can generate the valid states for each size of subgraph in poly time
- Multiply together - poly x poly is still poly

Make sure to test numbers of vertices versus the bounds in overleaf doc (paths and cycles).


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] (This week - at least get started) ER Experiments
- [ ] (This week) implement tests to ensure number of tuples produced for paths and cycles by code is what we'd expect from analytically derived expressions

**Writing:**
- [ ] (This week) Editing pass - edit and cut down (at least) abstract and section 1
- [ ] (This week, depending on how practical side goes) Write up approach to ER experiments as these are done
- [ ] (Could require some thinking, maybe a while) Go back to 3rd criterion - rework because walks only works for paths

**Planning:**
- [ ] (This week) Plan future experiments (this could lead onto actual work in next several weeks):
	- What do I want to know for each graph class? I.e. write down research questions hoped to answer
	- How will I find out (code to write, already have some code)?
- [ ] (Possibly next week or later) plan out a talk for BCC in case funding application submitted is accepted

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.

**_Next meeting date: 16:00 08-03-2022_**



_EK 15:50 03-03-22_
