# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 48__
21-03-2022

[< Previous](47_17-03-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess is away for most of next week, so the next meeting is scheduled for the following week.


## 2. Research

Since (again) this meeting came only one working day after the previous supervision, Jess agreed to write some comments on the first two sections of overleaf document (introduction and how we generate equations). Ethan should review and address these suggestions and implement changes.

Ethan has otherwise been continuing work from the previous meeting (experiments on random graphs with equation generation procedure).


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- Continue experiments on random graphs:
	- [ ] Try experiments on larger ER graphs
	- [ ] Write up process and results, at least in notes if not in overleaf doc yet
	- [ ] Coding infrastructure for comparing running times - run eqn generation and obtain result, then simulate until convergent on same result, which is faster?

**Writing:**
- [X] Expand introduction to Overleaf document, with more exposition of key concepts and a roadmap of the paper
- [ ] Write up experiments and results, at least as notes if not in overleaf doc yet
- [ ] Implement suggestions and amendments discussed with Jess in meeting

**Planning:**
- [ ] Think about what a talk for BCC would look like (topic, how much can be covered in 10 mins, etc.)



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above. Send Jess an update next week before the next meeting (the following week).

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 13:00 07-04-22_**



_EK 20:19 21-03-22_
