# PHD MEETING

19-12-2023

[< Previous]() | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Hunter_


## 1. Admin



## 2. Research

 - Expand dynamic justification - better models spread of fire/etc.
 - Section 3: 
	 - [x] make sure you define fancy S 
	 - Explain what a strategy is
	 - Justification for why the problem relates to dynamic networks
	 - Def. 3: s is a mapping from vertices to states at each timestep in the process. Also, shouldn't be a definition, more of an example of this type of cost function
	 - Need to reference figure early in text and say where on this figure what is known in terms of positive/negative results - what can we say about the explicitly temporal cases? Try $c(v, t)$, are there some cases for this type of cost function for which instances (e.g. star, path) are easy in static case but hard in this case
	 - Expand on implicit/explicit - implicit, state of graph drives change, explicit e.g. seasonality drives change
	 - Prop 5 - explain what equivalency is, decision problems so given strategy one is yes iff yes for other and there's a way of transforming strategies (need not be same strategy but need to be able to go from one to other)
	 - Need to expand on this sentence: "115. Since ρ is a valid strategy for CFire, σ is a valid strategy for CFireRes and saves precisely the same set of vertices." Need to expand on this, refer to definition of problem equivalence. Probably going to end up an inductive proof. Similarly for last sentence of next para.
	 - Parameterisation: also parameterised by O(time function takes). "If predicate has some properties that we need" or something.
	 - Line 8 should not be ^{b_i}, what is S some kind of sum? "obviously, this depends on time to compute cost function"
	 
## 3. Plan

Focus on:
 - Results for implicit/explicit cost functions if possible, at least expanding on what that means
 - MSO - what is S, parameterised by time to compute cost function as well.
 - Writing things (see above)
 - Interval graph proof



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan:
JOSS?

Jess:


**_Next meeting date: _**



_EH 11:11 19-12-23_
