# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 35__
15-07-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan explained that he has taken on some marking for courses he has been involved in teaching this summer. The two would like their next meeting to take place in person so have moved their usual meeting to the following Wednesday at 12 noon to accomodate for travel to campus in schedules.


## 2. Research

Ethan has pinned down a systematic approach to equations generation, which he explained to Jess. Jess suggested Ethan write this out and share this with Jess so that she can verify this makes sense and should be used to correct the code Ethan had already written.

Ethan also discussed some difficulty in adapting the apache ODE solver to his purposes and Jess helped Ethan to brainstorm longer term possibilities. Both agreed Ethan should try to avoid writing code to generate code at all costs, but this may be a helpful intermediate step. Ethan may like to begin by creating arrays that are equal to the `y` array with each term multiplied by each of the relevant transition rates - this may make the way forward clearer.

Ethan has also been back in touch with his collaborator in the virology department and has made some progress in this area. 

## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] Complete systematic equations generation method reading, write up and share with Jess
- [ ] Return to equations generation code and try to fix using new method
- [ ] (Eventually) explore possible ways that equations generated can be fed into the ODE solver in a reasonable way

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above, sending Jess a link to the write up of the generation method when finished.

Jess: no follow up.

**_Next meeting date: 12:00 21-07-21 _**



_EK 13:54 15-07-21_
