# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 36__
21-07-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan has completed an equations generation process write-up and Jess reviewed this prior to their meeting.


## 2. Research

Jess has reviewed the equations generation process that Ethan has written up, which he aims to now implement in code so long as Jess is satisfied that it makes sense. Jess noted that Ethan should ensure he has indices in the correct order in transmission matrix $T$ terms, as this would make a difference in directed graphs. Ethan and Jess also discussed why we begin with a pairwise independence assumption, which Jess conjectures is down to mathematical convenience.

Ethan asked Jess where she would start if implementing this in an Object-Oriented way, given the somewhat rigid requirements imposed by the differential equation solver. Jess suggested reviewing the solver and would suppose that Ethan could write a class with array attributes to represent equations.

When discussing the virology modelling Ethan has been working on, Jess gave a very useful overview of Bayesian Fitting, which Ethan has heard thrown around quite frequently.

Jess and Ethan also discussed the future of the $P$ (Protected) state in this approach to equations generation - Jess suggested that, to maintain the Markovian nature of the equations generation process, this may have to be less like the Firefighter deterministic state we have been considering and more like the mechanism for recovery, except something more interesting (e.g. still a carrier of the disease).


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [X] Continue verifying equations generation process and implement in existing code
- [X] Carry on with IT project marking
- [X] Consider how we could implement a protected state in an interesting way which maintains the Markovian assumption


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: _**



_EK 09:51 22-07-21_
