# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 37__
29-07-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Alice Miller,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess begins maternity leave on 01-08-21, so this is the final PhD meeting with Jess for some time. Ethan later returned to Jess' office with Alice (second supervisor) for an informal hand-over.


## 2. Research

Ethan showed Jess the code implementation of the equations generation procedure he had written up last time and demonstrated the correct generation of the equations for a triangle graph and solution of these equations. Ethan now aims to continue with testing, which Jess suggested could be done by inputting an initial state which is known (e.g. one vertex is known to be infected, others susceptible) and examine the produced probabilities, ensuring any impossible probabilities are zero and other possibilities have appropriate values.

Ethan noted that the code does not generate equations for all susceptible tuples, which needs to be examined (Ethan has likely hard-coded a `false` for closures somewhere in the new procedure while developing).

Jess asked an interesting question about efficiency: how big can we get with the number of equations? Ethan noted that he has quite a bit of refactoring and efficiency improvements to carry out and this may be a good way to measure improvement.


## 3. Plan

While Jess is away, Ethan will continue on his three strands of work:
1. Equation generation
	- [ ] Continue testing code
	- [ ] Fix issues with all susceptible tuples (used in graphs considered after closures)
	- [ ] Refactoring and efficiency improvement
2. FMD Outbreak modellin (collaborative work)
3. Experiments/simulations

Ethan should:
- Identify research questions while working on his three strands of research - Jess suggested writing _lots_ of draft questions around the three strands in order to pin down the most interesting/relevant
	- For example, on ER graphs, when comparing the intrinsic protection allocated uniformly at random to some more interesting distributions (e.g. based on graph structure), what differences do we see in how different defence strategies perform?
- Perform simulations on various graph classes, with more interesting protection rating allocations (for example, vaccine hesitancy can be modelled by clusters of high protection ratings and clusters of low protection ratings)


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: TBC_**



_EK 11:02 30-07-21_
