
# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 63_
03-11-2022

[< Previous](../10/62_20-10-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

No meeting last week as Ethan had few updates aside from coding. Summary is in following section.

## 2. Research

### Summary

I have been representing equations in SymPy. This has the benefit of easily simplifying and printing systems of equations, which has been very helpful for testing, but - as I'm now discovering - is not so helpful for using these equations. I had expected a numerical solver to be available but SymPy is only for symbolic manipulation and solving, meaning when solving equations SymPy will only try to search for an analytic solution and then plug in initial conditions.

To solve this, I first considered SciPy, which is used by SymPy and so seemed that it would interface fairly well with SymPy equations. This turned out to be false - SciPy solvers take a function as an argument, which details how the RHS of equations can be derived, rather than a list of equations. This is hence a long-term goal, as the current generation of equations relies on maintaining a list of new terms that are introduced when deriving equations that are not themselves in the system of equations to generate further equations (and I would think this recursive approach would not interface well with SciPy).

There is an intermediate work-around, called JitCode. This has been developed to allow SymPy equations to be solved by SciPy. However, there are a couple of issues with this: first, the functions are _prescribed_ by JitCode (i.e., I can't call my functions $\langle S_3 I_4 \rangle (t)$, they have to look like $y(0)$, $y(1)$, etc.) and so I need to seriously amend my code to allow for this. I'm using kwargs in my existing Python functions so that equations can either be generated in a nicely readable way, for testing and printing out systems, or in a jitcode way (with a translation dictionary, otherwise I would have a very hard time keeping track of hundreds of functions all called y(i)). This is taking some time, but I have experimented with jitcode (just using a stupid function that replaces all SymPy functions with JitCode looking ones) a bit now and it still seems pretty slow. It also spits out lots of information about fonts to the console for some reason, I haven't looked into this but it makes me really not trust the code. Hence, I may need to make my long-term goal of SciPy functionality a feature sooner rather than later. I had hoped my quick JitCode fix would mean I can produce some plots soon and move on with the paper, but it looks like it will make my code seem not much faster than SymPy attempting analytic solutions - probably because I don't understand JitCode very well, as it's a small package with limited documentation, but that's more motivation to try and work with SciPy integration.

I've also tried [pyodesys](https://bjodah.github.io/pyodesys/latest/index.html), which is supposed to interface between SymPy and iterative solvers. It seems there are some serious bugs in this package, despite it being well documented, reviewed in the JOSS and used by quite a few people. I've spent several hours trying different parameters to avoid bugs to at least get something working but I haven't been able to avoid them long enough to get some results.

Other work: I've had lots of marking to do (assessed exercise season) and PGR rep introductory stuff (this role should quiet down to the odd email and a meeting once every month or so now that's out of the way). I'm also chasing lots of admin threads to have my Minerva stuff finalised, but that should also be mostly off my plate soon.

### Discussion

Jess helped Ethan with interfacing current equation representation with a numerical solver (they selected SciPy as the most suitable candidate) and designed a function which would allow Ethan to solve equations, thereby allowing him to continue with MC experimentation. Jess found [this example](https://colab.research.google.com/github/APMonitor/pdc/blob/master/Solve_ODEs_with_scipy.ipynb#scrollTo=qItuCGtQtC5a) for Ethan to use when designing such a function.


## 3. Plan

- [ ] Write interfacing function to solve current equations using SciPy
- [ ] Use solutions to create a timed Monte Carlo simulator that stops when it is within a certain tolerance of the specified solution



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 10-11-22 13:00_**



_EK 23:08 02-11-22_
