
# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 65__
29-11-2022

[< Previous]() | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin


## 2. Research

**Plan for numerical solver**

MCMC to defined average now working, time to return to numerical solver.

Focus attention on small edge cases that I can do by hand so I know what I’m expecting on other side.

'Binary search' where things are going wrong:
-   Get a small system, e.g. start with $P_3$
-   Solve by hand and then hard-code equations and see what the numerical solver outputs and compare
-   Then generate and solve, comparing to my hard-coded numerical solution and hand solved solution

Seems like an issue with how equations are being fed into the solver, if I am still able to hand over static, hard-coded equations. Look into debugging options, e.g. ask it to feed back the equations to make sure they look the same as when the equations went in.
1.  Get the solver working with hard-coded equation. If can’t, do a really careful comparison of approach versus original examples to see why.
2.  Generate and solve, compare that to the hard-coded and to by hand. Returning the equations the solver actually got to see if they’re different to what was generated.
3.  Rerun with something larger if it looks like it’s working on the tiny examples. Smallest answer where it is consistently reproducibly wrong, if it doesn’t work on larger sets of equations.

May need to go back to my original external solver after all. Good to know we do have a backstop so this doesn’t go on forever.


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] 

**Writing:**
- [ ] 

**Planning:**
- [ ] 



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: No follow up.


**_Next meeting date: TBC_**



_EK 16:45 29-11-22_
