# Infinite Graphs: Containing Fires
For infinite graphs, the main problem to be considered is whether the fire can be contained by a given number of firefighters, how quickly it can be contained and the minimum number of vertices burned. Research to date has mainly focused on various infinite grids and numbers of fires and firefighters.

Useful method for obtaining lower bound: suppose a fire breaks out at the vertex $r$ of the graph $G$. Let $V_0=\{r\}$. For each integer $k\geq1$, let $V_k$ be the set of vertices at distance $k$ from $r$, let $B_k\subseteq V_k$ be the subset of these vertices that are burning at time $k$ and let $x_k$ be the number of vertices in $\displaystyle \bigcup\limits_{i>k} V_{i}$ defended at the end of $k$ time units.

### Theorem 4.1
Suppose a fire breaks out at the vertex $r$ of the graph $G$. For a given positive integer $d$, if for every positive integer $k$, every non-empty subset $A\subseteq V_k$ satisfies $\displaystyle |N(A)\cap V_{k+1}|\geq |A|+d$, then $|B_t|>x_t$ for every $t$.

The Hall-like condition in this statement ensures that the set of vertices that are at a distance $t$ from $r$ and burning at time $t$ (the bounday of the fire) has more neighbours than can be defended. Thus, $d$ firefighters cannot contain the fire.

### Proposition 4.2
Let $G$ be an $r$-regular graph. Then, a single fire can be contained by $r-1$ firefighters in two time units and the minimum number of vertices burned is two.

Since an $n$-dimensional square grid is $2n$-regular, Prop. 4.2 immediately implies an upper bound on the number of firefighters needed to contain the fire.

### Corollary 4.3
In the infinite $n$-dimensional square grid, a single fire can be contained by $2n-1$ firefighters in two time units with two vertices burned.

### Theorem 4.4
The following statements hold wrt containing a single fire in an infinite $n$-dimensional square grid.
1. If $n=1$ or $n\geq 3$, then $2n-1$ firefighters are necessary and sufficient to contain the fire. The minimum number of time units needed to contain the fire is two. The minimum damage when the fire is contained by $2d-1$ firefighters is two and this can be achieved in two time units.
2. If $n=2$ then two firefighters are necessary and sufficient to contain the fire. The minimum number of time units needed by two firefighters to contain the fire is eight. The minimum damage when the fire is contained by two firefighters is 18 and this can be achieved in 8 time units. Three firefighters can contain the fire in two time units with two vertices burned.
This theorem suggests that in some sense the 2D case differs from the remaining cases. The following theorem provides more evidence that this is true.

### Theorem 4.5
The following statements hold wrt containing an outbreak of one or more fires in an infinite $n$-dimensional square grid.
1. If $n=1$, then a single firefighter can contain any finite numbe of fires.
2. If $n=2$, then two firefighters aqre necessary and sufficient to contain any finite number of fires.
3. If $n\geq 3$, then for any positive integer $d$ there is a finite number of fires that cannot be contained by $d$ firefighters.


### Theorem 4.6
1. In the 2D infinite strong grid[^1], four firefighters are necessary and sufficient to contain any finite number of fires.
2. In the 2D infinite triangular grid, three firefighters are necessary and sufficient to contain any finite number of fires.
3. In the 2D infinite hexagonal grid, two firefighters suffice to contain any finite number of fires.

[^1]: A strong grid has vertex set $ZxZ$ and the edge set $\{(u,v)(x,y):|u-x|\leq 1, |v-y|\leq 1 and (u,v)\neq(x,y)\}.$
### Conjecture 4.7
There is no periodic sequence for which the average over all time units to the end of the process of the number of firefighters used to contain the fire is less than $3/2$.

### Corollary 4.9
One fractional firefighter suffices to contain the fire in each of the following infinite grids: the 2 dimensional square grid, the strong grid, the triangular grid and the hexagonal grid.