# Related Work

This section focuses on other applications of the Firefighter project - it does not go into great detail for any one application, but gives further reading for suitable topics.

## Politicians Firefighting
Number of firefighters available varies each time step according to growth of fire. Specifically, for each vertex that caught fire at time $t$ and has at least one undefended non-burning neighbour, there is one firefighter available to be placed on such a neighbour in the next time step. This problem is solveable in linear time for trees, but NP-hard for planar graphs of maximum degree five. It is fixed paramater tractable fo general graphs.

## Viruses
There is a great deal of literature on propogation of rumours, viruses or epidemics in small worlds and/or scale-free networks, most of which use probabilistic methods. There can be a threshold for the spreading rate below which an epidemic will die out before reaching the entire population - scale-free networks do not admit such a threshold.

The discrete model considered by Comellas, Mitjana and Peters exhibits similar rates of infection to the probabilistic methods mentioned. In this model, a vertex of a graph that is *infected* remains contagious for $\mathcal{A}$ time units and can infect $k$ of its neighbours in each time unit in which the infection is active. The same autors found the time for a virus to spread to all vertices - which they prove is guaranteed for any $k/geq $ and $\mathcal{A}/geq 1$ and then considered the problem of stopping the spread of the virus by installing "firewalls" at some vertices of the graph. These firewalls are activated beforehand, as opposed to at a rate of several per time step. They prevent an infected vertex from spreading the virus to any of its neighbours. Upper and lower bounds on the number of firewalls needed to prevent the virus from infecting all vertices are presented.

*We could use this to investigate pandemics such as COVID - infection time up to 2 weeks before symptoms may develop, perhaps a week after. Value of $k$ is the $r$ number, rate of infection, which could be modelled as a function of time or a constant imput variable to examine the effects of increasing/decreasing rates of infection.*

## The Angel Problem

First introduced by E. R. Berlekamp, Conway and R. K. Guy in *Winning Ways.* The problem is to decide if a devil eating a square per turn from an infinite checkerboard can strand an angel able to jump up to $p$ squares per turn. When $p=1$, this can be viewed as the problem of containing a fire (the angel)  that can spread only to neighbouring vertices each time unit. Such an angel *can* be trapped, but the problem is not yet solved for other values of $p$. Bollobas and Leader proved that the angel can always escape for sufficiently large $p$ in a 3D grid. They indicate that $p=50$ is proveably large enough and conjecture that in fact $p=1$ is large enough.

## Cops and Robbers
The question here is whether $k$ cops can trap a robber who moves along the edge of a graph. Varying assumptions leads to different variations, but in each the cops play a similar role to the fire or the devil: they are trying to contain the robber. The case where the robber is arbitrarily fast and invisible is related to search and sweeping. When the robber is arbitrarily fast and visible, the number $k$ cops required to catch the robber is the tree-width of $G$. Otherwise, this is studied as a perfect information game where players move alternately, from vertex to vertex along edges of the graph (or digraph). The graphs on which one cop has a winning strategy are precisely the retracts of products of paths. Finding a characterisation of the graphs on which two (or $k$) cops have a winning strategy is a long standing open problem.

## Amazons
The game of Amazons was invented in 1988 by W. Zamkauskas. It is a 2-player game played on a $10\times 10$ chess board. Each player has a number of Amazons, usually four, that move like Queens in chess and that shoot arrows which "move" in the same way as a chess Queen also. Each arrow permamently burns the square on which it lands. A move in the game consists of relocating an Amazon and then shooting an arrow with that same Amazon. Neither Amazons nor arrows can jump over any piece. The last player to be able to move wins.

## Resistance Communications
In 1979, Gunther and Hartnell considered the problem of establishing a communication network for members of an underground resistance movement such that betrayal members, as a consequence of treachery or subversion by one or more members of the group, is minimised. The members of the movement are modelled by the vertices of the graph and the edges represent communications links. If a vertex is subverted, then all of its neighbours are betrayed. Given $b, n\in\mathbb{N}$, the problem find connected graphs on $n$ bvertices such that the number of betrayals from $b$ subversions is minimal. In particular, for a given graph $G$ and $b\in\mathbb{Z}^{+}$, the quantity $K(G,b)$ is the maximum over all $b$-subsets $B\subseteq V(G)$ of $|N(B)|$. The quantity $K(n,b)$ is the minimum over all connected graphs $G$ on $n$ vertices of $K(G,b)$[^1]. This problem can be seen as minimising the maximum damage that can be done by $b$ fires that are never defended but spread for only one time unit.

Related to this, in 1989 A Finbow and Hartnell considered the related problem of designing graphs so that the expected damage done by the betrayals resulting from $b$ supervisions is minimum. This can be viewed as minimising the expected damage done by $b$ fires that break out at a random set of vertices and ae never defended, but spread for only one time unit.
[^1]: Pun intended, surely.