## Introduction

Diffusion often leads to non-Poisson distributed events in the real world. Authors find this to be true in sharing microblogs online, citing scholarly publications, high incidence of crimes along hotspots and aftershock sequences near seismic centre. These scenarios show that an event occurence is likely to be triggered by preceding events in cascades of different scales - timing of discontinuous events conveys information of underlying diffusion mechanisms.

Point process approaches for finding the feedback mechanisms between preceding and triggering events has drawn attention from many aspects of academia, because it can be used to predict diffusion trends and determine ways to limit/encourage spread (based on conttext).

Authors propose "Latent Influence Point Process Model" (LIPP) for diswase spread across heterogeneous social system by using following three major counterbalancing factors:
1. Exogeneous influence covering environmental heterogeneity
2. Endogenous influence attributed to macrolevel interactions between metapopulations
3. Time decay effect.

Use Bayesian inference with stochastic Exp-Max algorithm to quantify reflexivity of metapopulations - that is, the level of feedback on event occurences driven by external and internal dynamics in a complex system and estimate infection flow between metapopulations based on Granger causality.

First carry out simulations for synthetic data as 'ground truth' by varying parameter input to mimic real data. They also add variations to generated datasets to reproduce:
1. Random missing,
2. Non-random missing and
3. Time-delayed mechanisms of human case reporting.

Authors have collected 1,200 datasets in total and use these to evaluate performance of the model (recovery of infection flow between regions, model parameters) and compare with competing baselines.
- Greater than 85% accuracy for cross-regional infection flow (70% for noisy data)
- 95% confidence interval
- outperforms baseline models.
Used 15 year period from 2002-2016 study of dengue spread in Queensland, Aus. and find outbreaks become more interconnected globally across several regions through human mobility -> more complex behaviour of disease spread over time. In terms of reflexivity, precursory growth and symmetric decline of outbreaks in metropolitan or populated regions are attributed to slow yet persistent feedback on previous outbreaks. Abrupt growth with sharp decline in remote/peripheral regions is driven by rapid but inconsistent feedback in intragroup dynamics. Similar diffusion between two populous cities reflect mechanisms of regional social systems, likely due to volume of external visitors and heavy reciprocal fluxes between cities. Human mobility is a vital factor of mutual excitations across regions. 