# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 60__
04-08-2022

[< Previous]() | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Final meeting before Ethan is on holiday and Jess leaves for Canada (some remote working while there, some holiday time).

RSE Project progress update: basic functionality there, would be helpful for Jess to find any writing/graphics/etc. Ethan could use to pad the website out. Ethan looking into long-term backend options.

## 2. Research

ODE Paper has been Ethan's main focus. He presented new Tree bound to Jess, which explains the path result much better than original proof. Jess considered whether showing the path result from both angles (without direct use of closure result and special case, as with trees as done originally, and with the special case) may be an interesting narrative. Won't do much harm to try, as writing mostly done. Jess looked over Tree bound proof and was mostly satisfied, but Ethan should note a couple of claims could do with more explicit justification.

Jess and Ethan also discussed Ethan's initial thinking on extending the single vertex cutset argument to at least a clique cutset of size 2. It looks to be that we would need to consider the vertices in the edge cutset in SS, SI, IS and potentially II and this may lead to separate results. The arguments in the proof would suggest SS and potentially II follow immediately, but where the internals of the cutset are dynamically significant the situation is not as clear. Jess suggested setting up a meeting with John in late August to discuss, as this is his area of expertise.


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] Continue with Python rewriting - testing, SymPy support

**Writing:**
- [ ] Improve tree bound proof
- [ ] Work on pitch for John to explain problem with cutset extension

**Planning:**
- [ ] Schedule meeting with John



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan, as above.

Jess: writing/graphics/etc. for RSE website project, if available.


**_Next meeting date: TBC_**



_EK 09:12 05-08-22_
