## Introduction

Authors note that it is unsurprising the problem is so difficult. Already shown to be [[DEF. NP-complete|NP-complete]] even for trees of maximum degree 3. They go on to give some commonly understood results, such as simple greedy method is 1/2 approx. algorithm and a 0-1 integer programming formulation can solve the problem in polynomial time for some subclass of trees. There is also a $(1-1/e)$-approx. algorithm for trees based on relaxing linear programming and randomised rounding and others have considered $d$-dimensional grids. 

In their research, the authors study the defensibility of a graph as a whole by considering average proportion of vertices that can be saved by the firefighter. They use their definition $$\rho(G)=\sum_{v\in V}\frac{\text{sn}(v)}{n^2},$$ the surviving rate, to obtain that, for paths and cycles, $\rho(P_n)=1-\frac{2}{n}+\frac{2}{n^2} \text{ for } n \geq 2$ and further $\rho(C_n)=1-\frac{2}{n}.$ They point out that the notion of a surviving rate is close to that of *expected damage* from [[Papers/On minimising the effects of fire/0. Meta|Finbow et al]], who were interested in minimum expected damage. Result: $\rho(G) = 1-\text{ed}(G)/n$ where $\text{ed}(G)$ is the expected damage of $G$, given by $$\text{ed}(G)=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{v\in V}(n-\text{sn}(v)).$$

One of the paper's main results:
$$
\rho(G)>\begin{cases}
1-\sqrt{2/n} &\text{if }G\text{ is a tree with }n\text{ vertices,}\\
1/6 &\text{if }G\text{  is an outerplanar graph,}\\
3/10 &\text{if }G\text{ is a Halin graph with at least 5 vertices.}
\end{cases}
$$