# ANNUAL PROGRESS REVIEW MEETING
	
25-06-2021

## Review Panel Members

Convenor: Kitty Meeks

Examiners: Oana Andrei, Ciaran McCreesh


## Convenor Summary of Meeting

Ethan began with a 10 minute description of the work he has completed so far and his plans for the PhD going forward.  This was followed by around 45 minutes of questions from the assessors.  Ethan left the meeting while the panel held a brief discussion in his absence, before rejoining the meeting to be told the outcome. 

The panel were impressed by the amount of work that Ethan has already managed to complete, and had no concerns at all about progression.  Ethan also responded confidently to challenging technical questions.

The panel made several suggestions to keep in mind for the next session:
- Next year's report should include a more concrete thesis statement, which gives a brief description of the claims that will be justified in the rest of the thesis.
- When claiming conclusions based on experiments on random graphs (e.g. the superiority of particular defence strategies), be aware that many processes/algorithms exhibit different behaviour on Erdos-Renyi random graphs than on other less uniform graph models.
- When seeking optimal strategies, be aware that IP solvers might not be the most appropriate tool - a MaxSAT solver may perform better in this setting.
- Work with PRISM should only be done if this is the most appropriate way to address the research questions: it's not a requirement to work with this, so keep an open mind.


## Student notes

After my presentation of the work I have completed so far and my aims for the year to come, Oana and Ciaran were asked to provide comments and pose any relevant questions.

Oana:
- Consider whether PRISM is the most appropriate tool to utilise, or whether this is not in the domain Ethan is primarily interested in.
- Ethan should be careful to clearly define research questions and a thesis statement.
- Asked Ethan to clarify the relevance of Percolation Theory in his work so far.
- Ethan should be careful with the language he uses in writing, e.g. phrases like 'hugely foundational' are not very scientific

Ciaran:
- Asked Ethan technical questions regarding degree distributions in Erdos-Renyi graphs used in simulations so far and distance from closest infection distributions - specifically, when examined are these as expected and are they useful, or would other graph classes yield more useful or realistic such distributions from a modelling perspective?
- Ethan could consider Maximum Weight Clique Algorithms (paper available [here](http://eprints.gla.ac.uk/143720/)) to explore defence strategies
	- Ethan notes that, in Firefighter on sparse graphs, defence based on proximity to infection is generally preferable. On dense graphs, defence based on degree is better.
	- An ideal algorithm that determines a good defence in either case should be able to identify whether to defend based on degree, based on proximity to infection, or by some weighted combination of both.
- Integer program provided from Finbow and MacGillivray - since all variables are 0-1 and all constraints are max, this would be much better formulated as a Maximum Satisfiability problem
	- For this, Ethan could consider use of either a MaxSAT solver or pseudo-boolean solver
	- Ciaran gave a very helpful overview on the way MaxSAT solvers work and why here all variables may be assigned to $1/n$, the worst possible scenario for a MaxSAT problem!
- Thesis statement:
	- This should be a statement of something that is believed by the researcher and one or two paragraphs about why this is the case. 
	- Ethan may benefit from an academic writing class, as offered by the College


## Outcome

A - The student should be permitted to register for the next session with no conditions.




_EK 11:30 25-06-21_
