# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 38__
11-01-2022


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess has returned from maternity leave for this semester, so this is the first meeting since July 2021. Meetings will continue weekly, although time TBC before next time.


## 2. Research

Ethan discussed some work he has done regarding bounding number of equations required to generate exact and deterministic representations of disease models on graphs. He explained an expression he has obtained for cycles and how results differ from the original paper in ways he cannot yet explain.

The two discussed this in the context of a chapter of the PhD thesis - Ethan should begin with a naive upper bound, then provide some different angles related to numbers of equations. For instance, he may be able to provide exact expressions for the number of equations required in a path on $N$ vertices, an upper bound for cycles and an expected value expression for some random graph classes.

## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [x] Compare Toast network equations in paper to generated 4-cycle equations - remove extra equations not needed, do we land at the correct number? Which equations do we think are required but are not in adapted Toast equations?
- [x] Use a similar approach with cycles - this should be an easier task, and probably a good discussion of best-case for this approach
- [x] Begin expanding this process to other graph classes, e.g. how would an expected value expression look for ER graphs?


## 4. Follow-up

Jess:
- [X] Enquire about PhD thesis recently examined that has a chapter on some similar mathematics
- [x] Pass on notes taken in meeting about bounding cycle equations, naive upper bounds and path equations.


**_Next meeting date: TBC_**



_EK 12:05 11-01-22_
