# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 49__
05-04-2022

[< Previous](../03/48_21-03-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Final meeting before Ethan is away from 12/04 to 02/05.


## 2. Research

Ethan asked Jess for advice on approach to MC simulation to begin coding soon:
- Rather than probability per _vertex,_ more usual to assign per _edge_ probabilities.
- Plot a time series of infection (time on x-axis, number of infections on y-axis) by running lots of simulations.
	- For this, plot the median with "envelopes" around each median, eg. 95% of model runs.
	- Begin with simple E(P(X=x)) (usual output we consider) from the exact solution,
	- Keep track of outbreak size as summary measure

Jess reminded Ethan that there was information about an approximate (singles-based) model in a PhD thesis she recently examined. Ethan should look back on this as it may provide him an avenue to explore for a hybrid approach (where exact approach is not feasible but would like more analytic-style approach than averaging simulated behaviour, like simulation with a headstart). **Question: what do singles/doubles approximations look like on e.g. cycles? How accurate?**

Possible reading for when Ethan is away:
- Cut-sets
- Tree/path decompositions (start on paths)

Possible coding activity:
- Adapt existing combinatorial search to identify __cut-sets.__

Ethan should consider cut-sets more closely because they will provide very useful language to extend, formalise and solidify the approach he has been using to generate equations.

Graphs to consider (to find a point where exact approach is no longer feasible):
PATHS -> CYCLES -> CACTUS -> ...

(Cactus graph - paths/trees/cycles stuck together, no other structures - "graph where any 2 cycles have at most 1 vertex in common")

Perhaps, when we have considered single/double based approx. on cycles, we could consider this on cactus graphs and ask similar questions about accuracy versus tractability.

First step for this would be to write code that finds all cut-sets (of a given size). Natural question to ask: if we can identify cut-sets of a particular size, can we then bound the number of equations (and hence time taken to generate/solve)?

## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- Finish simulation code based on discussion with Jess.

**Writing:**


**Planning:**
- Tree/path decomposition reading
- How can the improvement using cut-sets from the Kiss paper be implemented in existing code?



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 14:00 03-05-22_**



_EK 18:30 04-04-22_
