# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 24__
08-04-2021

[< Previous](../04-21/23_08-04-21.md) | [Next >](../04-21/24_22-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

JK Meetings start back up as of this week, starting directly after this recurring meeting (Thursday 1pm).


## 2. Research

Ethan showed Jess the graphs he has plotted using modelling results. Both agreed that, while violin plots show just how broad the ranges of values are for some models, of the three types of plot (scatter, violin and box) the box plots are the most helpful in understanding the data.

Both agreed that a natural next step from this research for Ethan is to produce similar documents containing plots and explanations for other graph classes. Ethan should start with preferential attachment (since this is already implemented in the graph generator) and then move onto perhaps a Watts-Strogatz graph.

Ethan then showed Jess the entire closures procedure from the Markovian SIR paper he has been studying. Jess suggested a very useful end result would be to study the upper bound and understand the upper bounds for each subgraph that can be generated. For instance, 7 equations are required for a single edge - is there an upper bound e.g. $2^n$ for three states on $n$ vertices in the subgraph, $3^n$ for four states? By starting with this upper bound, we can move towards a method that can be refined with specific better upper bounds for known subgraphs, but it could still give an absolute upper bound for general subgraphs with no knowledge of their sructure. This would likely involve assuming a worst case scenario, i.e. the number of vertices in the subgraph is arranged as a clique.


## 3. Plan

- [ ] Produce plots and documentation for further graph classes for comparison (sticking with box plots?)
- [ ] Implement Watts-Strogatz graph in generator and examine results on this graph
- [ ] Examine closures more closely, try and come up with an upper bound expression on the number of equations for a specific subgraph.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date:  12:00 22-04-2021_**



_EK 20:30 15-04-2021_
