# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 25__
22-04-2021

[< Previous](../04-21/24_15-04-21.md) | [Next >](../04-21/26_29-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

JK Meeting at 2pm - new usual time. Ethan has been struggling to SSH into the department compute resources, so Jess gave a brief demonstration of how she accesses the server. Ethan should get in touch with support if this cannot be reproduced.


## 2. Research

Ethan has had a slower research week than usual; Ethan found a bug in the code resulting in fautly printing of results, which took him a few days to fix, but he believes it is now resolved. Jess made several very helpful suggestions:
- Code review:
	-  Ethan could get in touch with a (friendly) PhD student or Post-Doc in the department to review his code and identify any possible current or future issues and areas for improvement. 
	-  This person should have a good understanding of Java, but such a review should only take an hour or so.
	-  Software engineering students/post-docs are likely already familiar with the idea of a code review.
- Sanity checks:
	- Start fire only at high degree vertices (e.g. at least degree 5). This should show infection in charts, to show that the problem of only one infection being printed and analysed for charts (when we know there should be more) is now resolved
	- Select another graph class: perhaps a graph with one or two hubs, all the rest being leaves. We would expect here that protecting by degree should do well.
	- Implement a fully random protection strategy, which we expect any other strategy to do at least as poorly as (on average), hopefully better.
- Degree distribution plot:
	- Print the degrees of each vertex in each graph and plot this as a histogram or as a scatterplot with logarithmic scale, so we can get a clearer idea of whether we can attribute success to the strategies and their virtues or just to the nature of the graphs used.

Jess and Ethan also discussed the progress on the more theoretical systems of equations work. Jess suggested considering, as well as an upper bound (worst case for sub-graph would be a clique) Ethan should try and come up with a lower bound (best case - cycle?). Ethan should keep in mind that e.g. for size 3, cliques and cycles are the same. 

Potential proof that the minimum number of equations for a subgraph of $N$ vertices should be a cycle on $N$ vertices?
- Say we have $N$ vertices and $M$ edges in our connected subgraph (no cut vertex set, or else we would sub-divide into separate subgraphs).
- A connected graph on $N$ vertices with $M=N-1$ should probably be a tree (need to check this).
- Every tree (again, check this) has a single vertex cut-set
- Hence, this can't be true - also can't be true that $M$ is any less than $N-1$, since then the graph would be disconnected (check this)
- Thus, smallest possible number of edges must be $N$ - meaning smallest number of edges case is a cycle.



## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] More code refactoring, to avoid bugs taking longer than required again in future.
- [ ] Degree distribution plotting
- [ ] Implement and deploy a random defence strategy.
- [ ] Recreate numbers of equations from Markovian SIR paper and try to consider upper and lower bounds.
	- [ ] Upper bound: clique on number of vertices of the subgraph.
	- [ ] Lower bound: possibly a cycle?
	- [ ] Can we prove either, i.e. using the above proof outline?


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: No follow up.

_(Update 22/04/21 15:00: Ethan contacted support to discuss SSH issues and they informed him he needs to be added to a postgrad group with access to the server, which he has been added to now. He can now access the SSH server and, more importantly, FATA nodes)._


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 29/04/2021_**



_EK 13:30 22-04-2021_
