# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 26__
29-04-2021


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan and Jess are now permitted to have in-person meetings in the department (with masks and social distancing), which could begin as of next time.


## 2. Research

Ethan has managed to complete most of the goals from last time, with the exception of writing up the outline of the proof discussed. Ethan is currently working on a method that implements the ideas discussed and worked on in the previous week in the equations project by splicing a given graph based on cut-vertices.

For the next week, Jess and Ethan agreed that Ethan should focus on some sanity checks and software testing to ensure the (somewhat unexpected) results he has obtained are correct. Ethan should implement a strategy with no defensive actions whatsoever, to see how much would burn in each graph with no defence.  Ethan should also plot degree distributions for the different graph classes he has implemented and used for modelling and, for next time, Jess will look through the code Ethan has written and suggest any changes or areas for improvement.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [ ] Degree distribution plotting for different graph classes (sanity check)
- [ ] Implement a 'no defence' strategy to see how much of each graph would burn if left alone (sanity check)
- [ ] Continue implementing splicing method in Equations project


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan, as above. Tell Jess if/when the Equations code is ready to look over.

Jess: look over Agency code to identify potential issues, areas for improvement or optimisations.


**_Next meeting date: 06-05-21_**



_EK 09:35 {{30-04-21}}_
