# PHD MEETING
## Second Supervisor Meeting

__Meeting 04__
28-01-2021

[[2_03_25-02-2021 | < Previous]] | [[2_04_XX-04-2021 | Next >]]

_Alice Miller,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Alice and Ethan discussed the ASD course Alice is teaching in the summer term (for the Masters (IT) course) and mentioned that she has expressed a preference to the teaching office for Ethan to be a tutor on that course. 


## 2. Research

Ethan updated Alice again on the mini-project work, running through an overview of the Java project he has been working on. Alice was very encouraging and gave some suggestions for improvement and directions to take this work further:
* Data could be stored as a _binary search tree_ rather than as CSV files to improve run-time
* Ethan should begin documenting results to ensure any claims about defence strategy performance can be well evidenced

Alice also noted that Ethan's thesis is primarily about exploring new approaches, ideas and methods (with an eye to game theory and stochastic methods) to infectious disease modelling, so this is a very worthwhile endeavour.

Ethan also noted he is hoping to submit an abstract to a new Computational Biology conference being run by the University of Glasgow. Alice was very encouraging about this and agreed to send some examples of abstracts. Alice gave the following advice:
* Keep writing precise
* Try and create some kind of graphic to detail the talk Ethan would hope to give
* Look at other examples of similar conference abstracts to get a feel for the language and structure used.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
* Complete the current mini-project, updating Alice as/when appropriate. Ethan should pay special attention to documenting the results obtained from simulations and formalising results generally.

Both:
* Organise next meeting in April.


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.



**_Next meeting date: TBD**



_EK 13:30 31-03-2021_
