# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 10__
17-12-2020

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan discussed his teaching with Jess for next semester - he is tutoring CS1PX (which Jess is lecturing), OOSE2 (object-oriented software engineering) and acting as a lab assistant for Programming (Java as part of the IT conversion masters) course. He noted that in fact the hours are less than semester 1, which will give him more time for his research.


## 2. Research

Ethan explained the progress he has made on the Naive solution to the Firefighter problem and on the SIR reading he has been doing.
* Naive solution is finished, and - with minor tidying up of code - Ethan is ready to move on
* Finished reading paper on SIR model Jess suggested at a previous J/K Friday meeting and found a useful paper explaining ways to combine compartmental and network models of disease
Jess explained that a useful activity would be to come up with a simple network and use the content of the paper to draw up a system of equations describing the network, to aid with understanding and intuition when trying to understand further results.

Jess made a number of suggestions for directions to pursue based on this reading, come the new year, which are detailed in the followin section.


## 3. Plan

Ethan: consider the following questions into the new year.
0. Begin by generating an example network and drawing up a system of equations for it using the information in the paper.
1. Considering an SIRP (P - protected), the equations themselves may be a little more complex but the paper suggests the system will not be any more complex (i.e. not any more equations). Ethan should try and confirm this intuition: how does adding agency-related attributes contribute to the exact system of equations?
2. Look at the papers that have cited the paper - what kinds of results have already been found, what has been missed and what has been suggested?
3. They suspect that because the paper is based on single cut sets, it is likely there exists an argument for the number of equations when we discuss longer cut sets - for instance, they could consider clique or arbitrarily small cut sets. Importantly, this may lead to separators in tree decomposition: that is, Ethan should ask whether we can extend the results of the paper to more graphs like tree decomposition - here, we would expect that the number of graphs would be bounded by an exponential function of the size of separation.
4. Taking a more algorithmic approach, Ethan should consider for instance determining the time constraints of generating (and even solving) exact equations, which will likely be a constant multiple of the number of equations.



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above

Jess: nothing to follow up.


**_Next meeting date: (Provisionally) 12:00 07/01/2021 **
