# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 40__
25-01-2022


_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Jess and Ethan will now try to meet in person where possible/practical/sensible and will start next week at 3pm on Monday, the week after at 1pm Monday and repeating.


## 2. Research

Jess discussed some ideas about reducing the numbers of equations using graph structure of a path:
- Edges over which there are no "imminent" changes possible, e.g. SS or II edges
- We should try and identify edges in graphs that, if the edge is removed, we are left with equivalent system dynamics, i.e. no impact on probabilities

Jess and Ethan discussed the use of a "filter graph," a transition graph (vertices - states in the model, edges - transitions) that can be notionally combined with the graph on which we have applied the model to remove any dynamically unrequired edges in the current timestep. In general, we will have a cut-set of edges determined by our state transition graph and which edges exist.

Ethan should consider extending these ideas to other graph classes where the number of sub-graphs of size $p$ is polynomial in the number of vertices, to see if we can get a better idea for where this equations generation procedure is still viable and sensible. What about other nice graph properties that we could use? Some options to consider:
- Cycles - similar case to paths.
- Some limited extensions of paths (caterpillar/cactus of limited degree) - similar case to paths.
- What about grids with limited height? Could try to appeal to periodicity and symmetry here?
- Star graphs - again, an appeal to symmetry? This may need a whole new way of represnting these equations in order to better utilise symmetric properties


## 3. Plan

Ethan (long-term plan, not all for the coming week):
- Return to paths with new notion of filter graphs to generalise previous expression for number of equations
- Consider what an expression would look like on a cycle
- Consider expression for paths with leaves of limited degree
- Stars - could require a very different approach to equation representation, but still a very good case to consider due to symmetry
- Grids of limited height (likely that this is infeasable - could this be where we start to consider mean-field approximations?)

Further, Ethan should check of outstanding TODOs from the previous week (i.e. draft email).


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.

**_Next meeting date: 15:00 31/01/21 _**



_EK 08:46 26-01-22_
