# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 53__
08-06-2022

[< Previous](../05/52_24-05-22) | [Next >](../06/54_15-06-22.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

This meeting is a de-brief after the Annual Progression Review (the day before).

## 2. Research

Oana mentioned broader implications of work in field of Social Network Analysis - possibly easier to apply to social contagion, but this may be clarified in the write-up.

Conference Oana suggested in Romania - Ethan should come up with preliminary costing and apply to RSC when ready (although registration information is not yet available). If Ethan wants to attend, he should begin an extended abstract.

Ethan should keep an eye on DMANET emails in case there are any smaller conferences there that may be suitable. Ethan could also ask Oana about other suitable venues, with deadlines that could roughly line up with current timeline.

Ethan needs to re-write a thesis statement. Think of statements as hypothesis - something proveable, not necessarily how it will be proved but this should be implied in the specificity of language used. Ethan also needs to consider how we can show others this work is useful for human diseases - this is probably done through citations and case studies.

Ethan should have a look at skills training on offer and identify any skills he wants to develop that are important for his progression and wider career - perhaps look into Software Carpentry.


## 3. Plan

**Actions**
- [ ] Clarify - social contagion or indeed social network analysis?
- [ ] [CMSB 2022](https://fmi.unibuc.ro/en/cmsb-2022/cmsb-2022-call/)
	- [ ] Write an extended abstract
	- [ ] Initial costing
- [ ] Re-write thesis stamenet
- [ ] Identify skills to develop over the next year and decide on training accordingly



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above,

Jess: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 15-06-2022_**



_EK 17:18 15-06-22_
