# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 54__
15-06-2022

[< Previous](../06/53_06-06-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan is presenting a paper for JK Modelling group - got to section 2.3 today, will continue next week.


## 2. Research

Thesis statement - first draft has some relevant statements, still needs reworking.
- Can have a small introductory paragraph before the actual statement, but make sure they are separate
- In thesis statement, state predictions and ensure it's clear how this will be investigated - don't say it explicitly but make sure it's implicit
- Some example points that could require such prediction statements:
	- (Dynamical approach to disease modelling) will only _exhibit acceptable performance_ (when) __OR__ will _out-perform stochastic modelling_ (when)
	- (Approach to modelling) is better when we want to explore large range of initial conditions, small graphs, graphs with single cut-vertex cut-sets, etc.
	- Improve code for dynamical approach, or at least verify acceptable performance, for certain graphs starting with:
		- Caterpillars
		- Trees
		- Low-density ER (lots of single-vertex cut-sets)
	- A single-vertex cut-set decomposition approach makes ODE code suitable for (the above graphs) but not for denser graphs
		- This could lead to a plot of ER $p$ on x axis and time for computing/solving equations on y
	- Larger cut-sets
		- Can generalise proof in Kiss to constant size clique cut-sets
		- This will increase feasibility of our code/alg approach

Ethan should keep notes on anything he likes from the paper he is presenting to the JK_Modelling group. Jess picked it because much of it is applicable, particularly the plots and conclusions drawn. Ethan has found it helpful as a way of seeing how to describe stochastic modelling.

If Ethan would like to see more output and is ready to pursue case-studies, Jess is willing to trawl through [this network repository](www.networkrepository.com) to find suitable test graphs. For instance, find a network to test equation generation and assess feasibility, or use for agency-based modelling for output.

## 3. Plan

**Plan:*
- [ ] Thesis statement - revise using this meeting discussion (notes above)
- [ ] Continue with extended abstract



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: no follow up.


**_Next meeting date: TBC_**



_EK 17:32 15-06-22_
