# ANNUAL PROGRESS REVIEW MEETING
	
07-06-2022

## Review Panel Members

Examiners: Oana Andrei, Ciaran McCreesh


## Panel Summary of Meeting

The committee met with the student via video conference call. The student gave a presentation of their work, that was followed by discussion. The committee recommend that Ethan be permitted to progress to the next year of studies, as well as to consider the following points:
* Revise the thesis statement, make it more specific (instead of using the expression "more useful and interesting models" per our discussion during the meeting).
* Think carefully about the interdisciplinary nature of this work, identify what is the computational contribution (perhaps focus on the complexity of the methods investigated), identify and use a clear, simple case or application from epidemiology to illustrate it.
* Focus on writing up a couple of papers (poster including) for specific venue/conference deadlines using the research results already conducted as starting points.
* Work on time management to protect the time spent on research and writing.
* Take a scientific writing course offered by the University of Glasgow and read about data visualisation.


## Student notes

After my presentation of the work I have completed so far and my aims for the year to come, Oana and Ciaran provided comments and posed relevant questions.

Oana:
- Ethan should consider case studies to illustrate use-cases of his work
- Ethan should be aware of limitations of his work
	- What can this procedure for modelling disease be used for?
	- What could the procedure be used for with adjustment?
- Social network anaysis
	- Keep an open mind - some problems Ethan is working on may be generalisabe to problems in this domain
- If planning to do a post-doc, Ethan needs to be networking!
- Timeline: not well done. Should identify venue first, then work to that deadline for publications.
- Ethan may consider submitting a poster at the [International Conference on Computational Methods in Systems Biology](https://fmi.unibuc.ro/en/cmsb-2022/cmsb-2022-call/)

Ciaran:
- Thesis statement:
	- Current language is vague and subjective
	- Should make statements that are direct, measurable and specific
- Network models
	- Ciaran spoke to an epidemiologist, who stated that this type of graph-based modelling is not useful for human diseases (but useful for cattle diseases)
	- Ethan should be clear on bounds and limitations of his work, perhaps using case studies to clarify this
- Contribution to knowledge as an interdisciplinary project
	- Danger with interdisciplinary work: my work may not include novel maths, epidemiologically relevant appications or computationally useful models
	- Ethan should aim to frame next thesis statement to show how work can be useful, specifically from computing science perspective
- Career path plans
	- May be worth speaking to Blair Archibald about Research Software Engineering
	- When getting jobs after a PhD, employers more interested in what came alongside research i.e., papers etc. so this should be top priority.
	- Consider what training is available to help on career path
	- Academic writing classes would take writing from 'fine' to 'good,' which may make the difference for acceptance when submitting papers
- Plots in review
	- No plots were appropriate - e.g. box plots on p12 were a poor choice, should only be used when data is normally distributed
	- Should read Better [Data Visualisation](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Better-Data-Visualizations-Scholars-Researchers/dp/0231193114)
	- Better than boxplots on p12 -jitter or bee swarm
- Should run single and pair models on small-world networks rather than ERs

### Actions

- Rewrite thesis statement, based on feedback above
	- Series of hypothesis-like statements, each one scientific and proveable
	- Be specific and measurable in each statement
	- Be careful to frame research to better expose contribution to research - not clear at the moment, especially since it is interdisciplinary
- Rethink plotting
	- Do some reading about deciding which plots may be suitable for the data I am producing
	- Plot using this new understanding of better data visualisation
- Consider conference Oana mentioned - deadline for posters is 1 July, so there is time to put together an extended abstract
- Keep working on paper - this should be high priority if Ethan wants to be competitive when looking for post-docs


## Outcome

E - Minor Issues: The student should be permitted to register for the next session subject to minor conditions.

Conditions to be met: Revise the thesis statement

Deadline Date: 15 July 2022




_EK 12:30 10-06-22_
