## Bounds and Graph Families

Adding more edges does not increase $k$-surviving rate, and so it follows that cliques have smallest surviving rates. Hence, for a graph of$n$ vertices,
$$\rho(G, k)\geq\frac{\lceil(n-1)/{k+1}\rceil}{n}\geq\frac{1}{k+1}\left(1-\frac{1}{n}\right)$$
The authors use this result to derive an upper bound for the $k$-surviving rate of a connected graph as a function of $k$ and its order:

### Theorem 1
*For a connected graph $G$ on $n$ vertices,*
$$\rho(G,k) \leq 1-\frac{2}{n}-\frac{1}{n^2}+\frac{1}{n^2}\lceil\frac{n-1}{k+1}\rceil$$ 
$$\leq 1-\frac{1}{n}\left(2-\frac{1}{k+1}\right)+O\left(\frac{1}{n^2}\right)$$
Note that the bound in the first inequality here is sharp as equality holds for a star on $n$ vertices.

The authors provide the proof on the remainder of p.13.

They consider exact $k$-surviving *cycles* in order to illustrate parameter $\rho(G,k)$ in some families of graphs.

Let $W_n$ denote wheel graph consisting of an $(n-1)$-cycle with all vertices of cycle joined to a centre vertex. Then:
### Theorem 2
$$
\rho(W_n, k) = \begin{cases} &1/2 \\
&1-4/n+3/{n^2}+{\lceil{(n-1)}/{2}\rceil}/n^2 \\
&1/4 \\
&2/5 \\
&9/25 \\
&1-5/n+4/{n^2}+{\lceil(n-1)/(k+1)\rceil}/n^2
\end{cases}
$$
**Proof**
Cases $n=4,5$ are straightforward. Hence, assume $n\geq 6$. If fire breaks out at one of the $n-1$ vertices of degree three, the firefighter should protect the centre vertex. What remains for the fire is the cycle $C_{n-1}$. If $k=1$, the firefighter can save all but 3 vertices on $C_{n-1}$. If $k=2$, they can save all but 4. If fire breaks out at centre vertex, firefighter can save precisely one of every $k+1$ neighbour of the centre vertex for a total of $\lceil(n-1)/(k+1)\rceil$ vertices saved. Hence, we have:
$$
\begin{align} 
\rho(W_n,1)&=\frac{1}{n^2}\left((n-3)(n-1)+\lceil\frac{n-1}{k+1}\rceil\right) \\
&=1-\frac{4}{n}+\frac{3}{n^2}+\frac{\lceil\frac{n-1}{2}\rceil}{n^2} \\
\rho(W_n,k)&=\frac{1}{n^2}\left((n-4)(n-1)+\lceil\frac{n-1}{k+1}\rceil\right) \\
&=1-\frac{5}{n}+\frac{4}{n^2}+\frac{\lceil\frac{n-1}{k+1}\rceil}{n^2}
\end{align}
$$
for $k\geq 2.~~~ \blacksquare$

Cartesian product of $G$ and $H$ written $G\times H$ has vertex set $V(G)\times V(H)$. Vertices $(a,b)$ and $(c,d)$ are joined if $a=c$ and $bd\in E(H)$ or $ab\in E(G)$ and $b=d$. The authors now consider prisms, which are Cartesian products where one of the factors is $K_2$.

### Theorem 3
*For $k\geq 2,$ the following hold:*
1. $\rho(P_n\times K_2,1)=1-2/n+3/{n^2} \text{ for } n\geq 4;$
2. $\rho(P_n\times K_2,k)=1-3/n+7/n^2 \text{ for }n\geq 6;$
3. $\rho(C_n\times K_2, 1)=1-2/n \text{ for } n\geq 4;$
4. $\rho(C_n\times K_2, k)=1-3/n \text{ for } n\geq 5.$

