## Introduction

To obtain an exact solution to the spreading process, we need to be able to evaluate probabilistic evolution of the process configurations in time - i.e. solve set of coupled differential equations, called master equation or Chapman-Kolmogorov equation. Due to exponential growth of possible configurations in only a small number of special cases, it is possible to solve the master equation directly. Hence, they might use different approximations:
1. Neglecting dynamical correlations by assuming statistical independence at first neighbourhood, pair or node level in mean field approximations [[2020-21/Reading/Epidemiology/SIR Models/Markovian SIR epidemics on networks/0. Meta|cites Markovian SIR epidemics on networks]]
2. Neglecting loops in the network structure with message passing or belief propagation techniques
3. Neglecting temporal evolution by mapping to the [[DEF. Percolation|percolation process]].
Alternatively, could pursue simulation or sampling the statically correct process configurations or realisations with dynamic Monte Carlo techniques.

In the paper, they aim to propose how to precisely transform SIR spreading dynamics to a shortest path problem on an ensemble of weighted networks using a Monte Carlo approach. In their framework, weights are interaction time delays along edges. They show equivalence between time respecting (shortest) paths on the constructed weighted networks and the propagation times of spreading dynamics.

The mapping for this is applicable to the generalised SIR model without memory (exponential inter-event distribution/Poisson process) and with memory (arbitrary inter-event distributions). As opposed to standard MC methods, we don't need to specify initial conditions upfront; we can sample new realisations from the previous ones by makiing local random Markov Chain transitions between weighted networks. In infinite process time, the authors show a connection to bond percolation theory and in the special case of independently assigned edge weights, they establish a connection to the disordered in networks. Finally, they show the applications to source detection and time-critical vaccination.