# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 18__
04-03-2021

[< Previous](02-21/17_25-02-21.md) | [Next >](03-21/19_11-03-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan still hasn't been able to do as much work as usual, owing to personal circumstances.


## 2. Research

Ethan has spent time refactoring the code produced to make further improvements and adaptations easier to implement and debugging if and when necessary more straightforward. He has also written a class that produces plots to compare defence strategies on a given graph by source node. In the Erdős–Rényi graphs Ethan has been using for testing, Protection (defending the agents that would cost the least to increase to the protected state) seems to work best, and Jess gave some ideas of exploring this. Jess suggested:
* Removing randomness from initial protection and making the baseline rate entirely deterministic,
* Removing deterministic adjustment from protecion rating and instead using a purely random protection rating.

The results of examining these scenarios are not easy to predict but Ethan should use his grap plotting class to compare outcomes. He could use this to consider questions we could ask to explore where the protection-based strategy, uncommon in usual models, does better or worse than other strategies including degree and proximity based defences. How could we vary graphs to explore this? One useful graph to consider is a grid and regular graphs (where anything based on degree, which the protection strategy is partially since baseline protection increases slightly based on proximity).

## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* [x] Continue formalising/documenting the algorithmic approach to equation generation from last time.
* [x] Examine different graphs and see how the cheapest protection strategy does compared to the more usual strategies. Start with:
    * [x] Trees
    * [x] Grids
    * [x] Regular graphs
* [x] Examine how protection based strategy does (e.g. on Erdős–Rényi graphs still) when we vary the initial protection rating determination:
    * [x] No randomness, fully determined by proximity to infection
    * [x] Some randomness, some determined by proximity to infection (currently what the model uses)
    * [x] Entirely random.

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.

**_Next meeting date: 12:00 11-03-2021_**



_EK 13:00 05-03-2021_
