# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 20__
18-03-2021

[< Previous](19_11-03-21.md) | [Next >](21_25-03-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Next week, it would be helpful to Jess if the meeting was at 10am (rather than the usual 12 noon slot), to which Ethan agreed happily.


## 2. Research

Ethan has completed the LaTeX document containing key results, which he showed to Jess. Jess noted that bar charts, while a good starting point, may be less appropriate when we wish to compare several (random) graphs and the results of each strategy. Jess suggested that Ethan consider some other more appropriate visualisations that could be used when Ethan generates a large number of graphs, perhaps selecting a random vertex on each and running the three defences in parallel to make more general claims about when each strategy does better.

Ethan also showed Jess the flowcharts he has been working on to diagrammatically depict the algorithmic approach Ethan has developed for generating the required equations to describe am SIR(P) model exactly. Ethan noted that the tuple generation chart is proving difficult to complete because the method contains two recursive calls, so Jess pointed Ethan towards algorithms for an iterative approach, e.g. binary number usage in power set generation (which Ethan recognised as a common proof for the size of the power set of a set containing n elements being 2^n).


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* [ ] Complete flowcharts
    * [x] Get in touch with one of the department software engineers about recursive calls in flow charts in case they can point towards a way to do this
    * [ ] Put into a document with some explanations and pseudo-code?
    * [ ] Start considering how we could develop a method of identifying closures.
* [x] Continue with graph visualisation (Jess posted links in meeting chat to look at)
   * [x] [Graph layouts](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/reference/generated/networkx.drawing.layout.spring_layout.html)
   * [x] [Drawing graph tutorials](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/tutorial.html#drawing-graphs)
* [x]  Perform experiments on lots of graphs and compare results using charts and winning strategy determination.
* [x] Reply to BCC email asking for research interests, which could be (e.g.):
   * [x] Games on graphs
   * [x] Spreading processes on networks
   * [x] Infectious disease modelling using graphs

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: nothing to follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 10:00 25-03-2021_**



_EK 12:55 18-03-2021_
