# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 21__
25-03-2021

[< Previous](20_18-03-21.md) | [Next >](22_01-04-21.md)

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan cannot attend JK again on Friday (26/03) and the following meeting (01/04) has been moved to 11am.


## 2. Research

Since the previous meeting, Ethan has completed a number of the tasks from the plan:
* Flowcharts: Ethan has been in touch with another PGR to discuss this problem and will hopefully be able to begin working on this in the coming weeks with them.
* Graph visualisation: Ethan has written Python code that produces graph visualisations using `networkx` with a force-directed (Kamada-Kawai) layout. He has also written code to plot results from running his main Java code, which may prove more flexible than the Java code he has also written to this end.
* Multi-graph experiments: Ethan has adapted his project (as proof of concept) to perform experiments on 100 trees, 100 Erdős–Rényi graphs and a complete graph, all having 50 vertices. 
    * Jess discussed the possibility of now focusing on Erdős–Rényi graphs and varying the parameter p (probability) to examine specifically how protection performs. 
    * In future, Ethan could use the fata nodes he has kindly been given access to for larger experiments (hundreds of Erdős–Rényi graphs for each value of p, for instance). 
    * In the preliminary experiments, Ethan should aim for 20 increments in p and a few graphs for each increment. Data should then be collected, analysed and plotted.

Jess further suggested that Ethan consider equations generation documentation that he was working on previously:
* He could continue on this and when he manages to represent the procedure graphically he can include these diagrams in this documentation. 
* He could also work on a review of the main points in the paper that this procedure was first found in.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
- [x] Multi-graph testing focused on Erdős–Rényi graphs of varying p and plotting results using Python code.
- [ ] Equations generation documentation - small lit review section, further explanation and detail about the procedure so far.

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Jess: no follow-up.

**_Next meeting date: 11:00 01-04-2021_**



_EK 11:20 25-03-2021_
