# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 19__
11-03-2021

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Next week, Jess has proposed changing the meeting time to 10am (rather than the usual 12noon), to which Ethan agreed.


## 2. Research

Ethan has been working on obtaining experimental results from the SIRP coding project. He has written code that produces some graphs and now would like to produce a report-like document that details some of the key results so that Jess and Ethan can better see the results and decide on a way to progress in reporting results.


## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* Produce a LaTeX document with useful results (winning strategies per source node for given graphs, charts comparing number of infected, etc.)
* Plot graphs using Python NetworkX or GraphVis (Jess has sent links to chat)

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: plan as above.

Jess: No follow up.


**_Next meeting date: 10:00 18-03-2021_**



_EK TIME 12:00 12-03-2021_
