# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 06__
12-08-2021


_Alice Miller,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Alice and Ethan agreed that, for the time being, fortnightly meetings seem appropriate and are happy to continue meeting in-person on Thursdays. Ethan's office was recently flooded during the storms, so he is unable to be on campus regularly until it has been made safe and dried out.

Over the next two weeks, Ethan will be helping to teach on the Overseas Immersion Project for students in the Singapore campus, which he is looking forward to but this will mean his research output could be low.


## 2. Research

Ethan gave Alice a more detailed overview of the three strands he is pursuing and that Jess, before leaving for maternity leave, agreed that Ethan should continue working on. Ethan explained that he has mainly focused on generating equations for compartmental models on graphs and then solving these equations. In the past two weeks, his main focus has been testing, refactoring and other software improvements. Ethan has identified a handful of minor issues that he has been fixing, but this has been slow progress as he has been marking MSc(IT+) projects, which has been very time consuming.

Over the next two weeks, Ethan hopes to have finished bug fixing and the first-pass refactoring. Ethan hopes to have some formalised tests (e.g. JUnit) that can be used to verify the output of the code for different graphs and models. Ethan then aims to begin writing up the algorithmic approach used to generate these equations and use this for an upcoming FATA talk.


## 3. Plan

Ethan:
- [X] Complete IT+ group project marking
- [X] Teaching on OIP course
- [X] Complete bug fixing and refactoring of equation generation code
- [X] Begin writing up approach used in software and consider topics for FATA talk


## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above.

Alice: no follow-up.


**_Next meeting date: 26-08-2021_**


_EK 10:35 13-08-21_
