# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 57__
13-07-2022

[< Previous](../06/56_30-06-22.md) | [Next >]()

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Discussion:
- Extended abstract review
	- Is this ready to send off today? Deadline tomorrow
- Thesis statement feedback
	- Not necessary to action immediately, but should be considered for next year
- Travel to CMSB
	- Jess has very kindly booked flights and hotel from travel budget
	- Review costing requested from RSC before submitting application - just registration and subsistence (inc. airport transfer)
- "Repairs" to paper drafted prior to extended abstract writing
	- Used ideas and prop. writing from extended abstract to re-work aspects of draft paper
	- Is theoretical section looking better? Although too much detail and proofs aren't very rigorous yet
- Data pipeline project
	- First invoice due end of first week in August
	- 25 hrs between now and then - what should Ethan be working on?


## 2. Research

Extended abstract review:
- Jess has made 2 comments on Overleaf, otherwise ready to send today.

Thesis statement feedback:
- Jess agrees this is something to keep in mind next year but nothing to action now unless Ethan really wants to.

CMSB:
- Public transport travel to Edinburgh airport should be included in costing
- Ask Alice (or possibly Laura) about guidelines for subsistence
- May need taxi to hotel on arrival as flight arrives fairly late

Data Pipeline project
- **Website** should include
	- Text, explaining project
	- 3 kinds of data e.g. info about a shop that sells food:
		- Numeric, e.g. distance from home (10 mins, 1.5 miles)
		- Free text (careful here - SQL injection!!) e.g. name of location
		- Category (drop-down), e.g. type of location (farm, corner shop, ...)
		- Extra options (not required for submitting data), maybe several entries:
			- Goods sold?
			- How much for?
- **Backend** stores info -probably a database
- Some way of **displaying** acquired data
- Ethan should start considering tools to use in creating all this

Draft paper
- Jess developed a paper outline for Ethan's benefit since he is returning to this

### Paper plan


Story:
- Exact eqn approach improved by cutset on graphs that have them
- Exact eqn approach better when many initial conditions need to be considered and/or sparse graph

Intro:
- Existing work
- Outline contribution

Methods:
- Generation code
- Results (paths, cycles)
- Possible: extension to larger cutsets.

Results and Discussion:
- Impact of cutsets
	- Plots/tables with impact of closures on eqn generation approach and ideally showing performance better than MC approach
	- Performance better than MC in some cases - on some graphs, big difference; on others, small/none.
	- Plot of relative performance of MC vs cutset approach for differing density of ER graphs
- Impact of few vs many initial conditions
	- How many initial conditions do we need to make cutsets better than MC approach?
- Beyond $SIR$
	- Examplle of adapting generation to more complex compartmental model, e.g. simple covid (because these have lots of compartments)
	- When is MC better vs cutset approach here?

Conclusion:
- Reiterate story
- Future work


## 3. Plan

**Practical:**
- [ ] 

**Writing:**
- [ ] Finish extended abstract and submit
- [ ] Paper restructuring/reworking

**Planning:**
- [ ] Begin researching infrastructure/tools to use for data project
- [ ] Paper planning



## 4. Follow-up

Ethan:

Jess:


**_Next meeting date: _**



_EK 12:39 12-07-22_
