# PHD MEETING

__Meeting 09__
03-12-2020

[< Previous](08_26-11-20.md) | [Next >](10_17-12-20.md))

_Jess Enright,_
_Ethan Kelly_


## 1. Admin

Ethan has met with his second supervisor, Alice (as discussed last week) and explained she has been updated with the work so far and provided very useful directions to pursue on the side of formalising the models Ethan is interested in.

Jess has a workshop to run next week, so they will not meet next week but may schedule a short half-hour chat if required before the meeting the week after. Jess will try to attend the J/K meetings still. Ethan has offered to assist with the workshop with any work Jess may struggle to find time for, for instance writing up notes.

Ethan asked about his progress from Jess' perspective: he was concerned about not being on track after the two week isolation made progress slower for a period. Jess confirmed she is not worried at present about Ethan's progress, and suggested they schedule a 6-month review in March to discuss what Ethan has looked into (including what has been helpful/fruitful and what has not been) along with what Ethan hopes to achieve in the next time-period. Jess suggested that this will take a similar format to their regular meetings, but a little more formal, in order to discuss progress and reassure or support Ethan depending on where they both think he is compared to where he should be.

## 2. Research

Code:
* Permutation is fixed - overhauled, now extends ArrayList in order to allow for indexing a Permutation object where required
* Naive - almost finished, some niggles with indexing now Permutation has been overhauled but logic is present and should not require a great deal of adaptation now.
* Planning to update Agent class soon with any useful details found from reading Alice has pointed towards.
* Ethan was contacted by William P with some guidance on Integer Programming in Java, which he wants to start reading up on as it should prove very useful in the Firefighter project Ethan is producing.

Reading:
* Alice pointed to Compartmental Modelling, such as SIR models, where we can add compartments at will according to our particular context.
  * Jess explained the fundamentals of this, which will help Ethan to navigate the literature.
  * Ethan asked whether this could be something related to the network modelling he is trying to pursue, and Jess suggested that it could be difficult but not impossible.
  * Jess suggested considering graphs where nodes represent populations, which are modelled using compartmental models, and the interaction between them is understood with graph theory such (e.g. Firefighter)
  

## 3. Plan
Ethan: 
* Complete NaiveOptimalFirefighter
* Update Agent class as/when required (as explained above)
* Continue reading on Compartmental Modelling, and consider:
  * Is this useful and interesting to the overall project?
  * How can we discuss this in the context of network models?
  * Are there any problem areas/difficulties that can be discussed with Jess or Alice?  

## 4. Follow-up

Ethan: follow plan as above, with particular focus on completing the Naive solver.

Jess: if required, pass any tasks onto Ethan from workshop that she may not have time to complete (Ethan would find this good experience).


**_Next meeting date: 12:00 17-12-2020_**

