Notes on:
# The Firefighter Problem: a survey of results, directions and questions
## Stephen Finbow and Gary MacGillivray

### Introduction
First proposed 1995, 25th Manitoba Conference on Combinotorial Mathematrics and Computing.

At time $$t=0$$, fire breaks out at a vertex of graph $$G$$. At each subsequent time, the firefighter "defends" a vertex of $$G$$ and the fire spreads from each "burning" vertex to all of its undefended neighbours. Once a vertex is burning or defended, it remains so from then onwards. Terminates when fire can't spread to any other vertices. Possible objectives include:
- Minimise expected number of vertices burned if fire breaks out at random vertex
- Save maximum possible number of vertices
- Put the fire out as quickly as possible, i.e. minimise number of time units until process ends
- Find whether all vertices in specified collection can be prevented from burning
- Find number of firefighters needed to save a particular number of (or fraction of) or subset of the vertices. For infinite graphs, find the smallest number of firefighters that can contain the fire in a finite number of steps.

These objectives can be in conflict. For instance, easy to find trees to illustrate that putting out a fire as quickly as possible may not necessarily lead to saving maximum number of people.

[[DEF. Firefighter Problem]] is a deterministic, discrete-time model of the spread of a fire on the vertices of a graph. However, if graph represents a social network (vertices represent groups of people and edges represent contact between groups) then **Firefighter Problem can be modelled as spread of a virus or epidemic through a population.** Recent epidemological models try to include information about which individuals can come into contact with each other, not just assuming population being studied is well-mixed.