# Algorithms and complexity

The decision version of the Firefighter Problem is formally stated as:

FIREFIGHTER
INSTANCE: A rooted graph $(G, r)$ and an integer $k>=1$.
QUESTION: IS MVS$(G, R; 1)>=k$? That is, is there a finite sequence $d_1, d_2, ..., d_t$ of vertices of $G$ such that if the fire breaks out at $r$, then
1. Vertex $d_i$ is neither burning nor defended at time $i$.
2. At time $t$ no undefended vertex is adjacent to a burning vertex, and
3. At least $k$ vertices are saved at the end of time $t$?

This problem is [[DEF. NP-complete]] for bipartite graphs.

### Theorem 3.1
_FIREFIGHTER is NP-complete even if restricted to trees with maximum degree three. The problem is solvable in polynomial time for graphs of maximum degree three, oprovided the fire starts at a vertex of degree two._

The Firefighter Problem has not been investigated for directed graphs, but a rooted tree can be viiewed as a digraph in which all arcs are directed away from the root. In the directed version of the Firefighter Problem, the fire can spread only from the tail of an arc to its head.

$S$-FIRE
INSTANCE: A rooted graph $(G, r)$ and a subset $S\subseteq V(G)$.
QUESTION: Can one firefighter save all the vertices in $S$?

### Corollary 3.3
$S$-FIRE is NP-complete even if $S$ is the set of leaves of a tree of maximumdegree three. The problem is solvable in polynomial time for trees of maximum degree three in which the fire breaks out at a vertex of degree 2.

We can bring FIREFIGHTER and $S$-FIRE into a common framework by introducing vertex weights. These can be thought of as the value of each vertex and the goal is to maximise the value (i.e. weight) of the set of vertices saved. [[3. Algorithms and Complexity#Theorem 3 1]] states that the decision version of this problem is NP-complete for trees of max degree three and all weights equal. Note: the theorem *does not* imply that the problem is polynomial for all weighted graphs of max degree three if the fire breaks out at a vertex of degree two, although this may indeed be true.

Given an instance of $S$-fire, construct a weighted graph by assigning each vertex in $S$ the weight $n=|V(G)|$ assigning to each non-root vertex *not* in $S$ the weight 1 and assigning the root weight 0. Set $k=n|S|$. Then, a subset of vertices with weight at least $k$ can be saved if and only if all vertices in $S$ can be saved.

These results imply that it is reasonable to concentrate our focus to trees and on the case where there is one fire and one firefighter. There are three directions that have been considered:
1. Approximation algorithms
2. Exact exponential algorithms
3. Special classes of trees for which the probloem is solvable in polynomial time.
Given there is a unique path between any two vertices inb a tree, once a vertex is defended, that vertex and all of its children are saved. **Each vertex $v$ of a rooted tree $(T, r)$ can thus be seen as having a weight $w(v)$ equal to the number of vertices that will be saved if $v$ is defended. Since the root $r$ can't be defended, its weight is defined to be 0.**

A natural candidate for an approximation algorithm for the Firefighter Problem on trees is the *greedy algorithm.* At each time step, save the vertex of largest weight which is not burning.

### Theorem 3.4:
If Greedy$(T, r; 1)$ denotes the number of vertices saved by a single firefighter using the greedy algorithm, then 
	Greedy$(T, r; 1)>=\frac{1}{2}\textrm{MVS}(T, r; 1)$.
That is, the greedy algorithm is a half-approximation[^1] algorithm for the Firefighter Problem on trees.
[^1]: The ratio $\frac{\textrm{Greedy}(T, r; 1)}{\textrm{MVS}(T, r; 1)}$ can be seen to be arbitrarily close to $\frac{1}{2}$.

The greedy strategy of defending the vertex of highest degree adjacent to a burning vertex always finds an optimum solution in a caterpillar but *not* in an arbitrary tree. It is not known whether there is a constant $c\in(0,1]$ such that this algorithm saves at least $c\cdot\textrm{MVS}(T, r;1)$ vertices. 

From Proposition 2.2 in the paper, we see that in an optimal strategy for the FP on trees, the vertex defended at time $i$ is at distance $i$ from root (i.e. at level $i$). The additional observation that no descendant of a defended vertex is also defended in an optimal solution leads to an 0-1 integer programming of the Firefighter Problem on trees:

*For each vertex $v$ of $T$, let $d_v$ be a boolean decision variable such that $d_v=1$ if and only if vertex $v$ is defended ($d_v=0$ otherwise). Recall that, for $v\neq r$, the weight $w(v)$ is the number of vertices that will be saved if $v$ is defended and $w(r)=0$. The objective is to maximise $\displaystyle\sum_{v\in V} d_v w(v)$ subject to constraints that guarantee that at most one vertex is defended at every level and at most one ancestor of each vertex is defended. This latter condition is satisfied if and only if exactly one ancestor of each leaf is defended.*

The solution to the LP relaxation of this 0-1 integer program can be arbitaily fa fom the optimum integal solution in absolute tems. No known bound for how far the LP optimum can be from integrral optimum in elative tems, there is strong experimental evidence that suggests such a bound exists.

### Conjecture 3.5
There is a constant c such that the optimum solution to LP relaxation of the 0-1 integer program in Figure 5 is at most c times the optimum integral solution. That is, linear programming gives a c-approximation algorithm for the Firefighter Problem on trees.