Directly from paper:

1. Study the function $l(G, F)$, the minimum number of time units needed to contain $f$ fires that break out at vertices in $F$, where this quantity is defined to be infinity if the fires cannot be contained.
2. Find algorithms and complexity results for the natural extension of $S$-FIRE in which there are $d ≥ 2$ firefighters.
3. Given a weighted graph $(G, r)$ of maximum degree three, and in which $r$ has degree two, is there a polynomial-time algorithm that finds the maximum weight subset of vertices that can be saved?
4. Is there a constant $c\in(0, 1]$ such that the “greedy” strategy of defending the vertex of highest degree adjacent to a burning vertex saves at least $c\cdot\textrm{MVS}(T, r; 1)$ vertices of a rooted tree $(T, r)$?
5. For a subset $S\subseteq V(G)−{r}$ of vertices of a rooted graph $(G, r)$, define $F_{(G,r)}(S)$ to be the minimum number of firefighters needed to save all vertices in $S$. Find a theorem that gives $F_(T ,r)(S)$, where $S$ is the set of leaves of the tree $T$. Under what conditions is this number $\Delta − 1$? More generally, study the $S$-FIRE number of trees and graphs, especially in the case when $f = 1.$
6. Investigate the Firefighter Problem on trees in the cases where there is more than one fire and more than one firefighter. Determine the the approximation ratio of the greedy algorithm on trees for an arbitrary number $f$ of fires and $d$ of firefighters.
7. Is [[3. Algorithms and Complexity#Conjecture 3 5]] true?
8. Find classes of trees for which the Firefighter Problem can be solved in polynomial time. Find a structural characterization of the trees for which the LP relaxation of the 0-1 integer program in Figure 5 gives an optimum solution, or identify non-trivial classes of such trees.
9. B. Alspach suggested a heuristic for trees in which the LP relaxation of the 0-1 integer program is Figure 5 is solved, and then the resulting solution vector is used as a probability distribution for a randomized algorithm for defending the tree. Investigate the performance of such a heuristic experimentally and theoretically.
10. Does one firefighter suffice to contain a fire in the infinite hexagonal grid? What about any finite number of fires?
11. For each of the cases in [[4. Infinite Graphs#Theorem 4 6]], determine the minimum number of time units needed to contain a single fire, and the minimum number of vertices that must burn over all strategies that use a given number of firefighters.
12. For $n ≥ 3$, find the number of fractional firefighters needed to contain a single fire in the $n$-dimensional square grid and the $n$-dimensional strong grid.
13. Is [[4. Infinite Graphs#Conjecture 4 7]] true?
14. Improve the upper bound on the maximum number of vertices that can be saved when a fire in $P_n\box P_n$ breaks out at $(r, c), 1\leq r\leq c\leq \left[\frac{n}{2}\right]$. Does the strategy in [[5. Finite Grids#Proposition 5 1]] save the maximum number of vertices?
15. Is [[5. Finite Grids#Conjecture 5 3]] true?
16. Investigate optimal graphs (with respect to expected damage) in situations other than $f = d = 1$ and $f = d = 2$. In particular, what about $f = 1$ and $d > f$?
17. Is [[6. Minimising expected damage#Conjecture 6 4]] true?
18. Determine the minimum $d$, if it exists, such that there is a positive constant $c$ such that every planar graph $G$ satisfies $\rho(G, 1, d) \geq c$
19. Improve the lower bounds in [[6. Minimising expected damage#Theorem 6 3]].
20. Is it true that, for outerplanar graphs $G$, $\lim_{n\to \infty} \rho(G, 1, 1) = 1$? What about for Halin graphs?
21. Is it true that, for every $n$ vertex tree $T$, $\rho(T, 1, 1) \geq 1 − \Theta\left(\frac{\ln{n}}{n}\right)$?
22. Prove that it is NP-hard to determine $\rho(T, 1, 1)$ for a given tree $T$.
23. Determine the approximation ration for the greedy algorithm for the surviving rate $\rho(T, 1, 1)$ of a tree $T$. Is it $1 − \Theta\left(\frac{\ln{n}}{n}\right)$?
24. What are the mmd-graphs when $f = d = 2$ and the number of vertices is less than 10?
25. Find a theorem that describes the structure of mmd-graphs and use it to determine whether there are other mmd-graphs besides the ones listed in [[6. Minimising expected damage#Theorem 6 5]]
26. Directed graphs can be used to situations where a fire can spread from $x$ to $y$ but not from $y$ to $x$ (say because of topography or wind direction). Investigate the Firefighter Problem for (weighted) digraphs.